Lie back here and see things falling into place like reading the Tarot, no reason that betrayal can’t be positive is there?
Beautiful little innocent climbs into my lap fell on my neck with kisses while we put together this fiction of appearing as the nonperson my joy!
My honeyed muse, my sometime daughter, scraping it away now for the real nonperson here because there’s finally no getting around it is there.
Because what I’ve been dreading, what I’ve feared, what got me here in the first place no surgery no but this, this hormonal chemical God knows what treatment has put me out of business, out of being a threat yes maybe I never was.
Maybe I never was!
That was the great betrayal wasn’t it, where it all started, and everywhere the ceremony of innocence was drowned.
Listen.
Can you, can you pull a shade over there?
The sun’s getting in my eyes, sitting still here in a room God knows these shadows of the real state we’re all living in, dim shapes, those weightless shadows the chorus held up to Ajax in his slaughterhouse survive now simply as gossip like everything else in the end where they’ll say I never really planned the whole property transfer to them out of love but just as a scheme to avoid taxes?
Where they’ll say I’m the one who betrayed my daughters because I’d really surrendered nothing, the baby king who tyrannizes through the sheer blackmail of his existence, that I betrayed them and you and everyone yes, the artist as confidence man that I betrayed even myself from the fear of trying to carry the unforgiving burden of the real artist, to try to hide the failure of everything I’d promised there left stranded, like some maiden aunt’s Torschlusspanik at being left unmarried on the shelf, art and entertainment and technology, of authenticity and the true story of its philosopher corrupted by his sister as gossip of the most sinister sort, of love as the ultimate fiction and music the most refined form of Levochka’s sensual lust building up like the pressure of steam that would burst the boiler if the safety valve of sex didn’t release it he tells us in that frenzied metaphor of mechanization reaching everywhere, of art without the artist as a threat and the end of him at the twist of a knife but it wasn’t that crude, no.
No it doesn’t really matter because that’s what gossip does, isn’t that what gossip is?
Dawn breaking on the handsome face of mortal youth, verweile doch!
du bist so schön the goddess asking immortality for him like her immortal own but the legs have crumbled, pursued by age as punishment for pleasure and all of it fading into that bed of shades, those imitations and shadowy images of gossip where there is no present moment but only the next one being devoured in the immense maw of the past, where immortality finds its home at last, where the voice has dwindled to the dry scratch of a grasshopper and the legs are gone, they’re just not there and it all comes down in a heap good God look at them!
Blood dried on the sheets and those damn rusting staples don’t know whether I’m shivering or shaking from the, try to find one dry corner down there.
Try to sit up and get one leg down where it’s, something down there, just get my arm so I can reach the, whole sodden mess look at that.
Mel-O-DEE Music Rolls, Mel-O-Art, QRS Campaign Against Filth in Popular Songs they sold a million rolls in 1926.
Sell more Player Rolls!
Sell more Player Pianos!
Sell More Ukuleles and Banjos!
More!
More!
More!
God it was so it was all so America!
It was the crowd, not the dry scratch of the grasshopper but the herd, it was “the little people making merry like grasshoppers in spots of sunlight, hardly thinking” just perpetuating the species weren’t they?
“Foolishly reduplicating folly in thirty-year periods; they eat and they laugh too.” Groan against elitism, against Flaubert in retreat, “I believe that the crowd, the mass, the herd, will always be detestable” he writes to George Sand, remember?
When he’s written his niece preparing his Paris flat before his death, “I ask to be liberated from my enemy, the piano, and from another enemy, which hits me on the forehead—the stupid hanging lamp in the dining room” and weeks later, de Maupassant to Turgenev, “Flaubert apoplexy, no hope” where nothing survives of importance “save a small group of minds, ever the same, which pass on the torch.” No more piano!
I said.
Absolutely no artist!
By now electricity is spreading its blessings everywhere, from refinements on the reproducing piano with the, where, in Germany?
No that was my invention wasn’t it?
Wrote it down yes and somebody stole it?
The reproducing piano is made possible by an electric motor attached to the pump providing constant and predetermined air pressure, while back at home here the electric player with a magnet for each key appears, the nickel in the slot making the electrical contact pounding out its mechanical note; missing some in bad weather, but still in the vanguard other public entertainment a murderer named Kemmler provides material for the first electrocution at Auburn Prison.
Progress!
Great God wherever you’d look says Reverend Newell Dwight Hillis, “For the first time government, invention, art, industry, and religion have served all the people rather than the patrician classes.” Wait a minute no, no not so fast Reverend, elitists staging a rearguard action here, Steinway brings Paderewski over here and Knabe opens Carnegie Hall with Tchaikovsky live, piano makers and European patrons supporting music and the arts as diversions for Plato’s patricians and disdaining American artists as rubes who disdain them as foreign laborers.
Whole thing coming to pieces here, just to get it over with but, with what?
Over with what?
Prepositions make all the trouble but you can’t really explain anything to anybody why I’ve got to explain all this because we don’t know how much time’s left to finish this work of mine before it’s distorted and turned into a cartoon because it is a cartoon for that herd out there, the crowd, the mass waiting to be entertained, turn the creative artist into a performer because they are the hallucination, you see?
The whole thing’s turned upside down, the kittens are bit and the houses are built without walls, you see?
Used to be the reality was the stone Doctor Johnson kicked and Doctor Johnson himself, and hallucinations took place in the head, in the mind, now everything out there is the hallucination and the mind where the work is done is the only reality, because the work is the only refuge from this torn wet-smelling hallucination of the body looks like a, like some map all fingered and latticed see right through it where the Great Lakes with that biggest one hanging down like some immense weak malformed invertebrate fit only to be whipped, so if reality is the work when it goes wrong all that’s waiting out there is the sweat, the blood and, problem where’s the blood coming from, not bleeding anywhere but I keep finding fresh blood on the, not even on the collar no under the collar like a vampire?
Nothing mystical about all this it’s not some half-baked Buddhist nirvana where all is illusion good God no, because the rage is there at the heart of it, the sheer energy, the sheer tension the tinge of madness where the work gets done, the only reality, the only refuge from the vast hallucination that’s everything out there, and that you’re all part of out there where everything equals everything else.
Ten, a hundred, a thousand years ago it’s all one, where immortality becomes gossip, 1890 van Gogh shoots himself in a wheat field, Rimbaud’s gone the next year, and so is Melville and to even things out Whitman a year later Rudolf Diesel invents the internal combustion engine, Eastman Kodak is founded in his mother’s kitchen tainted by gossip over just where he got the idea for flexible film and Thomas Edison celebrates entertainment and art and the ascendancy of the crowd, the herd, with the patent on the kinetoscope, you see?
Carnegie the working man’s friend locks him out and goes fishing in Scotland to avoid the death and carnage at Homestead so it’s Frick who gets stabbed, pushpin or Pushkin long since killed in a duel and it’s all one, everything out there it’s all this grand hallucination where Count Tolstoy is stalking Turgenev, following him everywhere with his piercing frightening glare enough to drive a man mad with vicious remarks Turgenev tells a friend and he’s weeping again, remember?
Being haunted by this Other we’ve been talking about, The Kreutzer Sonata’s been banned here why?
because Beethoven’s German?
But it’s not the World War when Wagner’s music was banned here no, no this goes back to the day Wagner’s art was damned as “nothing more than the dope required by a decadent generation” by his disciple, his apostle, by the one who believed him to be Germany’s greatest creative genius, by the, good God can’t you see?
Wagner was the Other, he was the where is that, Michelangelo and the Self who could do more because that’s what it’s all about so he had to be killed, Nietzsche had to kill him and be carried away to an asylum a year later, while great Wagner lifts us aloft above the clouds to the mighty halls of old Walhalla where these great artists will never play again, but their phantom hands will live forever, haunt us forever.
Forever!
Good God that’s, question’s whether all this clatter and bang, old Walhalla and Chin Chin Temple Bells preserved on piano rolls are part of the hallucination or only escape from it, see what was going on everywhere out there in this frenzy of invention more than a century ago?
In Germany the Ariston player with thirty-six notes then the Hupfeld with sixty-one still no pneumatics till the Welte family patents its pneumatic Orchestrion operated with a perforated paper roll, in France Carpentier shows his Melograph and Melotrope to the French Academy, mechanical fingers brought to life by electromagnets and a perforated strip.
But before that France had claimed credit for the whole thing with Fourneaux’s pneumatic Pianista, its fingers worked through a piece of pierced cardboard, and here?
Peel off these damn notes sticking together worse than I am just the smell and all the rest of it, half the time inventing half the time litigating, Kelly invents a wind motor with slide valves opening and closing ports with electrical help, Merritt Gally’s inventions fighting on both fronts, R W Pain and Henry Kuster build Needham & Sons their first pneumatic piano player that’s half as big as the piano it attacks, somebody else is making a folding piano that’s portable and there’s the Piano écran that can be used as a screen or set up as a card table I mean all that’s got to be part of the hallucination doesn’t it?
Look.
There’s more to it, all that beating the bushes out there there’s more to it there’s a, a hunger that hasn’t taken shape haunting the whole thing.
It’s not just mother tapping the parlour piano note by note with her illustrated song The Little Lost Child or one of a hundred more about lost children, orphaned children, sick children, all in plentiful supply no, there’s more to it.
More what!
Are you crazy?
You think some phantom hand some, some significant Other will burst out of the bushes and redeem any shred of value hidden in your grand hallucination?
Provide some refuge from it where your reality prevails?
Where the work gets done?
Yes and why not!
Because right now it finds its despairing voice in a novel that sweeps the nation, when Peter Ibbetson would “buy or beg or borrow the music that had filled me with such emotion and delight, and take it home to my little square piano, and try to finger it out for myself.
But I had begun too late in life.
To sit, longing and helpless, before an instrument one cannot play, with a lovely score one cannot read!” Yes and then at that moment what, deliverance?
A patent issued for the Angelus Piano Player that can be played by hand or automatically with its mechanism working at the rear end of the keys not interfering with anything.
You see?
Why that novel of du Maurier’s was a rage in America where the biggest thrill in music would be in playing it yourself, what we talked about back at the start of all this?
Where it’s your own participation that rouses your emotions most?
Where you can play better by roll than many who play by hand, where you can play all pieces while they can play but a few?
And isn’t that your significant Other who cut the roll in the first place?
Your self who can do more yes, these phantom hands that transform you into this Other, not talking about those detachable selves that can be withdrawn from the body we talked about, no.
Not like the belly-talkers or doppelgängers, Golyadkin pursuing his doppelgänger or Golyadkin’s doppelgänger pursuing Golyadkin no, more like one of those dangerous demons of Homer’s with lives and energies of their own that aren’t really part of you since you can’t control them.
And now even untrained persons can do it!
Back with Plato’s chance persons pouring out Für Elise without a flaw till the last perforation in the roll passes over the corresponding hole in the tracker bar and democracy comes lumbering into the room with the piano player hunched over the keyboard half as big as the piano itself.
It’s all like, it’s like a kind of plagiary, like Gottschalk composing his bar room player piano music fifty years before the player was invented, like my own ideas being stolen before I even had them since I’m clearly the one person qualified for a piece of work like this one, first because I can’t read music and can’t play anything but a comb.
Second because I use only secondhand material which any court would dismiss as hearsay so we can reduce it to gossip like everything else, and finally.
Finally I really don’t believe any of it.
You see?
I don’t really believe you can take ninety-six people, that’s almost two hundred hands, take out some of them like the sleigh bells there’s still more than a hundred-odd hands doing entirely different things, guiding bows across strings pressing the neck so fast it’s dizzying, fingers pushing, plunging valves, keys opening holes and closing them, the clarinet changing whole registers translating every jot and tittle on the score into a stab, a wail, a delicate lonely suspense, a blast to wake the dead, sforzando, piano God knows what all of it going on at once but not exactly all at once because what’s coming out of all this is a Pastoral Symphony, what’s rising to the heavens is Bruckner’s Eighth or Mozart’s D Minor Piano Concerto, what overwhelms the senses is Eliot’s “music heard so deeply That it is not heard at all, but you are the music While the music lasts” but isn’t that then, isn’t that the hallucination?
Transforming this chaos of hands guiding bows, fingers plunging valves resolving this clutter of physical of, you see?
I can’t think about it, I can’t not think about it but when I try not to think about it I go absolutely crazy but that’s, no.
Can you hear me?
Listen.
Start back with these three wait, two pianos, first the enemy Flaubert asked to be liberated from.
No more piano!
I said, only that small group of minds, ever the same, to pass on the torch.
And the second one, Peter Ibbetson’s enigmatic little square piano that will not surrender its secrets, leaving him helpless before an instrument he cannot play, a score he can’t read, finding its author one day walking across Hampstead Heath with Henry James and a new idea for a story, begging the American novelist to write it, good God what it might have turned into in James’s delicate hands!
But James handed it back yes and here’s the third one, the third piano, a big semigrand by Broad-wood, brought to Paris by La Petite Vitesse freshly tuned for the hands of the man once the best pianist of his time at the Leipzig Conservatory, but now fallen to poverty and deceit, borrowing money, betraying and cheating anyone in reach, bullying anyone less talented, that is to say everyone, in the name of the art which he still holds bitterly sacred, supplying his miserable needs with any dodge he can devise, treating a young woman suffering from severe pain with an approach floating up from central Europe, where my golden Sigi had opened the era of psychoanalysis with a paper on the psychological mechanism of hysteria and was already embracing “free association” to replace hypnosis, left in the hands of those who’ve departed most lamentably from his own ideal most ably represented by the scapegrace now seated on the divan opposite the suffering girl looking at him fixed in the whites of his eyes.
He passed a hand on her forehead and temples, and down her cheek and her throat till her eyes closed and her face emptied.
Was she still in pain?
Oh!
presque plus du tout, monsieur!
she cries out and he, stunned by the shock of her cri du coeur ringing in the rafters, asks to look into her mouth, finding its roof like the dome of the Panthéon with room for toutes les gloires de la France, its entrance like the middle porch of Saint Sulpice, not a tooth missing, the bridge of her nose like the belly of a Stradivarius, what a sounding board!
She must come back to be cured of her pain when it returns, he will play Schubert and her voice will be trained, meanwhile she shall see nothing, hear nothing, think of nothing, think of nothing but Svengali, Svengali, Svengali!
And the world at large but America in extravagant particular would hear nothing, talk of nothing, read nothing, but Trilby, Trilby, Trilby, nothing but the inevitable stage production of Trilby where even the soft felt hat worn there became and is still called a trilby.
People went trilby mad.
You had to be there.
Can you hear me?
The America of discovering your hidden talent, of self-improvement, of one born every minute.
Over there, dying Offenbach’s one wish, to see the premiere of his Tales of Hoffmann, had come a year too late with its mechanical dolls by Spalanzani passing off one as his daughter for poor Hoffmann to fall in love with, and a girl in act three who sings herself to death.
But three years?
Svengali and a friend teaching Trilby eight hours a day morning noon and night for three years, violin and Svengali with his little flageolet, Gott im Himmel!
Wieder zurück!
The most astoundingly beautiful sounds ever heard from a human throat, one note drawn through all the colors of the rainbow as Svengali’s eyes directed her, the greatest contralto, the greatest soprano the world had ever known till that terrible night in Drury Lane when Svengali died in the box opposite and it was all over.
Can you hear me?
I’m, no, get my breath can’t get my breath, what it’s all about anyhow, that note drawn through the rainbow as his eyes directed this Other he had created feel like myself just the breathing, the breathing the, not being able to, to make these wonderful sounds he’d wanted and nothing else, to think his thoughts and wish his wishes, all of it nothing but Svengali’s love for himself turned inside out wasn’t it, yes!
Yes and that, where did that come from!
Finally yes that, where it’s all been going from the start, that cry from Michelangelo, O Dio, o Dio, o Dio, Chi m’a tolto a me stesso Ch’a me fusse più presso O più di me potessi, che poss’ io?
O Dio, o Dio, who has taken the one closest to me who could do more than no, no it’s not that pedestrian it’s fifteenth, sixteenth century Italian nearer poetry, Who nearer to me Or more mighty yes, more mighty than I Tore me away from myself.
Tore me away!
che poss’, what can I do?
I’ll tell you che poss’ io!
Get him back, whoever took this Other, tore away the closest to me who could do more yes wheel up the player, put a roll in and start pumping all trying to get out from under this cumbersome damn thing with its tiny fingers get a fine burnished player inside a case, a cocoon, says one pupa to the other as a butterfly passes, you’d never get me into an outfit like that, O Dio, o Dio, odious, repugnant, from odium, hatred, odisse to hate God the bed-maker you hear me Svengali?
That old friendship between myself and myself broken by age coming on, left my ideas and opinions to suit public opinion and be part of it a, a yes a nonperson looking back at the arrogant self-made self when you were the finest pianist at the Leipzig Conservatory before it was torn from you, before your love of singing became a croak in your throat and before you became Trilby’s Self who could do more till Age finally took you and the magnificent voice that we’d heard, that the world had heard when she sang the Impromptu was yours wasn’t it Svengali!
You singing with her voice, wasn’t it!
Age withering arrogant youth and worse, the works of arrogant youth and the book I wrote then, my first book, it’s become my enemy, o Dio, odium, the rage and energy and boundless excitement the only reality where the work that’s become my enemy got done and the only refuge from the hallucination that’s everything out there is the greater one that transforms you good God, Pozdnyshev, those words that Levochka gave you to transform the whole thing when “music carries you off into another state of being that’s not your own, of feeling things you don’t really feel, of understanding things you don’t really understand, of being able to do things you aren’t really able to do” yes, that transforms that transfigures you yourself into the self who can do more!
That was Youth with its reckless exuberance when all things were possible pursued by Age where we are now, looking back at what we destroyed, what we tore away from that self who could do more, and its work that’s become my enemy because that’s what I can tell you about, that Youth who could do anything.
