And you know what aglove means in the Murdrus dueluct?

Fewer to feud and rompant culotticism, a fugle for the gleemen and save, sit and sew.

And a pants outsizinned on the Doughertys’ duckboard pointing to peace at home.

In some, lawanorder on lovinardor.

Wait till we hear the Boy of Biskop reeling around your postoral lector!

Epistlemadethemology for deep dorfy doubtlings.

As we’ll lay till break of day in the bunk of basky, O!

Our island, Rome and duty!

Well tried, bucktiff!

Batt in, boot!

Sell him a breach contact, the vendoror, the buylawyer!

One hyde sack, hic!

Two stick holst, hucky!

Finnish Make Goal!

First you were Nomad, next you were Namar, now you’re Numah and it’s soon you’ll be Nomon.

Hence counsels Ecclesiast.

There’s every resumption.

The forgein offils is on the shove to lay you out dossier.

Darby’s in the yard, planning it on you, plot and edgings, the whispering peeler after Cooks wearing an illformation.

The find of his kind!

An artist, sir!

And dirt cheap at a sovereign a skull!

He knows his Finsbury Follies backwoods so you batter see to your regent refutation.

Ascare winde is rifing again about nice boys going native.

You know who was wrote about in the Orange Book of Estchapel?

Basil and the two other men from King’s Avenance.

Just press this cold brand against your brow for a mow.

Cainfully!

The sinus the curse.

That’s it.

Hung Chung Egglyfella now speak he tell numptywumpty topsawys belongahim pidgin.

Secret things other persons place there covered not.

How you fell from story to story like a sagasand to lie.

Enfilming infirmity.

On the because of you alleging to having a finger a fudding in pudding and pie.

Then old Hunphydunphyville’ll be blasted to bumboards by the youthful herald who would once you were.

He’d be our chosen one in the matter of Brittas more than anarthur.

But we’ll wake and see.

The wholes poors riches of ours hundreds of manhoods and womhoods.

Two cents, two mills and two myrds.

And here’s the witnesses.

Glue on to him, Greevy!

Bottom anker, Noordeece!

And kick kick killykick for the house that Juke built!

Wait till they send you to sleep, scowpow!

By jurors’ cruces!

And it’s all us rangers you’ll be facing in the box before the twelfth correctional.

Like one man, gell?

Between all the Misses Mountsackvilles in their halfmoon haemicycles, gasping to giddies to dye for the shame.

Just hold hard till the one we leapt out gets her yearing!

Hired in cameras, extra!

With His Honour Surpacker on the binge.

So yelp your guilt and kitz the buck.

You’ll have loss of fame from Wimmegame’s fake.

Forwards!

One bully son growing the goff and his twinger read out by the Nazi Priers.

You fought as how they’d never woxen up, did you, crucket?

It will wecker your earse, that it will!

When hives the court to exchequer ’tis the child which gives the sire away.

Good for you, Richmond Rover!

Scrum around, our side!

Let him have another between the spindlers!

A grand game!

Dalymount’s decisive.

Don Gouverneur Buckley’s in the Tara Tribune, sporting the insides of a Rhutian Jhanaral and little Mrs Ex-Skaerer-Sissers is bribing the halfpricers to pray for her widower in his gravest embazzlement.

You on her, hosy jigses, that’ll be some nonstop marrimont!

You in your stolen mace and anvil, Magnes, and her burrowed in Berkness cirrchus clouthses.

Fummuccumul with a grauneen aveiled.

Playing down the slavey touch.

Much as she was when the fancy cutter out collecting milestones espied her aseesaw on a fern.

So nimb, he said, a dat of dew.

The smiling ever!

If you pulls me over pay me, prhyse!

Between Furr-y-Benn and Ferr-y-Bree.

In this tear Vikloe vich he lofed.

A talor would adapt his caulking trudgers on to any shape at see.

Address deceitfold, of wovens weard.

The wonder of the women of the world together, moya!

And the lovablest Lima since Ineen MacCormick MacCoort MacConn O’Puckins MacKundred.

Only but she’s a little width wider got.

Be moving abog.

You cannot make a limousine lady out of a hillman minx.

Listun till you’ll hear the Mudquirt accent.

This is a bulgen horesies, this is wollan indulgencies, this is a fflemsh.

Tik.

Scapulars, beads and a stump of a candle, Hubert was a Hunter, chemins de la croixes and Rosairette’s egg, all the trimmings off the tree that she picked up after the Clontarf voterloost when O’Bryan MacBruiser bet Norris Nobnut.

Becracking his cucconut between his kknneess.

Umpthump, Here Inkeeper, it’s the doatereen’s wednessmorn!

Delphin dringing!

Grusham undergang!

And the Real Hymernians strenging strong at knocker knocker!

Holy and massalltolled.

Tik.

You ought to tak a dos of frut, sauss.

You’re getting hoovier, a twelve stone hoovier, fullends a twelve stone hoovier, in your corpus entis and it scurves you right, demnye!

Aunt as unclish ams they make oom.

But Nichtia you bound not to loose’s gone on Neffin since she clapped her charmer on him at Gormagareen.

At the Gunting Munting Hunting Punting.

The eitch is in her blood, arrah!

For a frecklesome freshcheeky sweetworded lupsqueezer.

And he shows how he’ll pick him the lock of her fancy.

Poghue!

Poghue!

Poghue!

And a good jump, Powell!

Clean over all their heads.

We could kiss him for that one, couddled we, Huggins?

Sparkes is the footer to hance off nancies.

Scaldhead, pursue!

Before you bunkle-doodle down upon your birchentop again after them three blows from time, drink and hurry.

The same three that nursed you, Skerry, Badbols and the Grey One.

All of your own club too.

With the fistful of burryberries were for the massus for to feed you living in dying.

Buy bran biscuits and you’ll never say dog.

And be in the finest of companies.

Morialtay and Kniferope Walker and Rowley the Barrel.

With Longbow of the lie, Slick of the trick and Blennercassel of the brogue.

Clanruckard for ever!

The Fenn, the Fenn, the kinn of all Fenns!

Deaf to the winds when for Croonacreena.

Fisht!

And it’s not now saying how we are where who’s softing what rushes.

Merry-virgin forbed!

But if they never eat soulefreede they’re ating it now.

With easter greeding.

Angus!

Angus!

Angus!

The keykeeper of the keys of the seven doors of the dreamadoory in the house of the household of Hecech saysaith.

Whitmore, whatmore?

Give it over, give it up!

Mawgraw!

Head of a helo, chesth of a champgnon, eye of a goll!

What you’d if he’d.

The groom is in the greenhouse, gattling out his.

Gun!

That lad’s the style for Lannigan’s ball!

Now a drive on the naval!

The Shallburn Shock.

Never mind your gibbous.

Slip on your ropen collar and draw the noosebag on your head.

Nobody will know or heed you, Postumus, if you skip round schlymartin by the back and come front sloomutren to beg in one of the shavers’ sailorsuits.

Three climbs threequickenthrees in the garb of nine.

We’ll split to see you mouldem imparvious.

A wing for oldboy Welsey Wandrer!

Well spat, witty wagtail!

Now piawn to bishop’s forthe!

Moove!

There’s Mumblesome Wadding Murch cranking up to the hornemoonium.

Drawg us out Ivy Eve in the Hall of Alum!

The finnecies of poetry wed music.

Feeling the jitters?

You’ll be as tight as Trivett when the knot’s knutted on.

Now’s your never!

Peena and Queena are duetting a giggle-for-giggle and the brideen Alannah is lost in her diamindwaiting.

What a magnificent gesture you will show us this gallus day.

Clean and easy, be the hooker!

And a free for croaks after.

Dovlen are out for it.

So is Rathfinn.

And, hike, here’s the hearse and four horses with the interprovincial crucifixioners throwing lots inside to know whose to be their gosson and whereas to brake the news to morhor.

How our mysterbilder his fullen aslip.

And who will wager but he’ll Shonny Bhoy be, the fleshlumpfleeter, from Poshtapengha and all he bares sobsconcious inklings shadowed on soulskin.

Its segnet yores, the strake of a hin.

Nup.

Laying the cloth, to fore of them.

And thanking the fish, in core of them.

To pass the grace for Gard sake!

Ahmohn.

Mr Justician Matthews and Mr Justician Marks and Mr Justician Luk de Luc and Mr Justician Johnston-Johnson.

And the aaskart, see, behind!

Help, help, hurray!

Allsup, allsop!

Four ghools to nail!

Cut it down, mates, look slippy!

They’ve got a dathe with a swimminpull.

Dang!

Ding!

Dong!

Dung!

Dinnin.

Isn’t it great he is swaying above us for his good and ours.

Fly your balloons, dannies and dennises!

He’s doorknobs dead!

And Annie Delap is free!

Ones more.

We could ate you, par Buccas, and imbabe through you, reassuranced in the wild lac of gotliness.

One fledge, one brood till hulm culms evurdyburdy.

Huh the throman!

Huh the traidor.

Huh the truh.

Errorsure, he’s the mannork of Arrahland oversense he horrhorrd his name in thuthunder.

Rrrwwwkkkrrr!

And seen it rudden up in fusefiressence on the flashmurket.

P.R.C.R.L.L.

Royloy.

Of the rollorrish rattillary.

The lewdningbluebolteredallucktruckalltraumconductor!

The unnamed non-irishblooder that becomes a Greenislender overnight!

But we’re molting superstituettes out of his fulse thorotin guts.

