
He gaddered togodder the odds docence of his vellumes, gresk, letton and russicruxian, onto the lapse of his prolegs, into umfullth onescuppered, and sat about his widerproof.

He proved it pompifically, in a most consistorous allocution, well whoonearth dry and drysick times, and vremiament, tu cesses, to the extinction of Niklaus altogether (Niklaus Alopysius having been the once Gripes’s popwilled nimbum), by Neuclidius and by Inexagoras, by Mumfsen and by Thumpsen, by Orasmus and by Amenius, by Anacletus the Jew and by Malachy the Augurer and by the Cappon’s collection and all the mummyscrips in Sick Bokes’ Juncroom.

And after that, with Cheekee’s gelatine and Alldaybrandy’s formolon, he reproved it ehrltogether, when not in that order sundering in some different order, alter three thirty and a hundred times, by the binomial dioram and the penic walls and the ind, the inklespill legends and the rure, the rule of the hoop and the blessons of expedience and the jus, the jugicants of Pontius Pilax and the Chapters for the Cunning of the Chapters of the Conning Fox by Tail.

While that Mooksius with preprocession and with proprecession, duplicitly and diplussedly, was promulgating ipsofacts and sadcontras this raskolly Gripos he had allbust seceded in monophysicking his illsobordunates.

But asawfulas he had caught his base semenoyous sarchnaktiers to combuccinate upon the silipses of his aspillouts and the acheporeoozers of his haggyown pneumax to synerethetise with the breadchestviousness of his sweeatovular ducose sofarfully the loggerthuds of his sakellaries were fond at variance with the synodals of his somepooliom and his babskissed nepogreasymost got the hoof from his philioquus.

— Efter thousand yaws, Oh Gropes, con my sheepskins, yow will be belined to the world, enscayed Mookse the pius.

— Ofter thousand yores, amsered Gripes the gregary, be the goat of Mac-Hammud’s, Ah Mookse, yours may be still more botheared.

— Us shall be chosen as the first of the last by the electress of Vale Hallow, obselved the Mookse nobily, for, par the unicum of Elelijiacks, Us am in Our stabulary and that is what Ruby and Roby fall for, blissim.

The Pills, the Nasal Wash (Yardly’s), the Army Man Cut.

As british as bond strict and as straightcut as when that brokenarched traveller from Nuzuland… — Wee, cumfussed the Gripes limply, shall not even be the last of the first, wee hope, when oust are visitated by the veiled horror.

And, he added, Mee are relying entirely, see the fortethurd of Elissabed, on the weightiness of mear’s breath.

Puffut!

Unsightbared embouscher, relentloose foe to social and business success!

(Hourihaleine.)

It might have been a happy evening but … And they viterberated each and other, canis et coluber, with the wildest ever wielded since Tarriestinus lashed Pissasphaltium.

— Unuchorn!

— Ungulant!

— Uvuloid!

— Uskybeak!

And bullfolly answered volleyball.

Nuvoletta in her lightdress, spunn of sisteen shimmers, was looking down on them, leaning over the bannistars and listening all she childishly could.

How she was brightened when Shouldrups in his glaubering hochskied his welkinstuck and how she was overclused when Kneesknobs on his zwivvel was makeacting such a paulse of himshelp!

She was alone.

All her nubied compinions were asleeping with the squirrels.

Their mivver, Mrs Moonan, was off in the Fuerst quarter scrubbing the backsteps of Number 28.

And as for fuvver, that Skand, he was up in Norwood’s sokaparlour eating oceans of Voking’s Blemish.

Nuvoletta listened as she reflected herself, though the heavenly one with his constellatria and his emanations stood between, and she tried all she tried to make the Mookse look up at her (but he was fore too adiaptotously farseeing) and to make the Gripes hear how coy she could be (though he was much too schystimatically auricular about his ens to heed her) but it was all mild’s vapour moist.

Not even her feignt reflection, Nuvoluccia, could they take their gnoses off, for their minds with intrepifide fate and bungless curiasity were conclaved with Heliogobbleus and Commodus and Enobarbarus and whatever the coordinal dickens they did as their damprauch of papyrs and buchstubs said.

As if that was their spiration!

As if theirs could duiparate her queendim!

As if she would be third perty to search on search proceedings!

She tried all the winsome wonsome ways her four winds had taught her.

She tossed her sfumastelliacinous hair like la princesse de la Petite Bretagne and she rounded her mignons arms like Mrs Cornwallis-West and she smiled over herself like the beauty of the image of the pose of the daughter of the queen of the Emperour of Irelande and she sighed after herself as were she born to bride with Tristis Tristior Tristissimus.

But, sweet madonine, she might fair as well have carried her daisy’s worth to Florida.

For the Mookse, a dogmad Accanite, were not amoosed and the Gripes, a dubliboused Catalick, wis pinefully obliviscent.

— I see, she sighed.

There are menner.

The siss of the whisp of the sigh of the softzing at the stir of the ver grose O arundo of a long one in midias reeds: and shades began to glidder along the banks, greepsing, greepsing, duusk unto duusk, and it was as glooming as gloaming could be in the waste of all peacable wolds.

Metamnisia was allsoonone coloroform brune; citherior spiane an eaulande, innemorous and unnumerose.

The Mookse had a sound eyes right but he would not all hear.

The Gripes had light ears left yet he could but ill see.

So he ceased, and he ceased, tung and trit, and it was never-soever so dusky of both of them.

But still Moo thought on the deeps of the undths he would profoundth come the morrokse and still Gri feeled of the scripes he would escipe if by grice he had luck enoupes.

O, how it was duusk!

From Vallee Maraia to Grasyaplaina, dormimust echo!

Ah dew!

Ah dew!

It was so duusk that the tears of night began to fall, at first by ones and twos, then by threes and fours, at last by fives and sixes of sevens, for the tired ones were weeping, as we weep now with them.

O!

O!

O!

Par la pluie!

Then there came down to the thither bank a woman of no appearance (I believe she was a Black with chills at her feet) and she gathered up his hoariness the Mookse motamourfully where he was spread and caried him away to her invisible dwelling, thats hights, Aquila Rapax, for he was the holy sacred solemn and poshup spit of her boshop’s apron.

So you see the Mookse he had reason as I knew and you knew and he knew all along.

And there came down to the hither bank a woman to all important (though they say that she was comely, spite the cold in her heed) and, for he was as like it as blow it to a hawker’s hank, she plucked down the Gripes, torn panicky autotone, in angeu from his limb and cariad away its beotitubes with her to her unseen shieling, it is, De Rore Coeli.

And so the poor Gripes got wrong, for that is always how a Gripes is, always was and always will be.

And it was never so thoughtful of either of them.

And there were left now an only elmtree and but a stone.

Polled with pietrous, sierre but saule.

O, yes!

And Nuvoletta, a lass.

Then Nuvoletta reflected for the last time in her little long life and she made up all her myriads of drifting minds in one.

She cancelled all her engauzements.

She climbed over the bannistars.

She gave a childy cloudy cry: Nuée!

Nuée!

A lightdress fluttered.

She was gone.

And into the river that had been a stream (for a thousand of tears had gone on her and come on her and she was stout and struck on dancing and her muddied name was Missisliffi) there fell a tear, a singult tear, the loveliest of all tears (I mean for those crylove fables fans who are “keen” on the pretty-pretty commonface sort of thing you meet by hopeharrods) for it was a leaptear.

But the river tripped on her by and by, lapping as though her heart was brook: Why, why, why!

Weh, O weh!

I’se so silly to be flowing but I no canna stay!

No applause, please!

Bast!

The romescot rattleshaker will go round your circulation in diu cursus.

Allaboy Major, I’ll take your reactions in another place after themes.

Nolan-Browne, you may now leave the classroom.

Joe Peters, Fox.

As I have now successfully explained to you my own naturalborn rations which are even in excise of my vaultybrain insure me that I am a mouth’s more deserving case by genius.

I’m Armory, so herald me, but he’s merely the size of his shirt.

The Jonases were juanisers in Lyoness before the first Schmied started to forge.

For see my stitchwork!

A boche beuglant in a field flam.

Motto: Twist im ann insulte!

Mookse makes for Muth and his Muth makes for Mastery wile Gripes yields to Guile but his Guile’ll yield the faster he is Faced in Front and Forced to acknowledge that the Roarer Rules the Knaves Leonidas!

Mookse, Mookse, Mookse!

I could face a phalanx philistine!

And Gripes, Gripes, Gripes!

I could chor em wiv zis jor of mine!

For I feel like Samsen, Hamsen and Yan Yammesen.

But nevertheleast also I feel in symbathos for my ever devoted friend and halfaloafonwashed brother, Gnaccus Gnoccovitch.

Darling germ!

Darling smallfox!

Horose-shoew!

I could love that man like my own ambo for being so baileycliaver though he’s a nawful cyrillass and I must slav to methodiousness.

I want him to go and live like a theabild in charge of the night brigade on Tristan da Cunha, isle of manoverboard, where he’ll make Number 106 and be near Inaccessible.

(The meeting of mahoganies, be the waves, rementions me that this exposed sight though it pines for an umbrella of its own and needs a shelter belt of the true service sort to keep its boles clean—the weeping beeches, Picea and Tillia, are in a wild state about it—ought to be classified, as Cricketbutt Willowm and his two nurserymen advisers suggested, under genus Inexhaustible when we refloat upon all the butternut, sweet gum and manna ash redcedera which is so purvulent there as if there was howthorns in Curraghchasa which ought to look as plane as a lodgepole to anybody until we are introduced to that pinetacotta of Verney Rubens where the deodarty is pinctured for us in a pure stand, which we do not doubt he has a habitat of doing, but without those selfsown seedlings which are a species of proof that the largest individual can occur at or in an olivetion such as East Conna Hillock where it mixes with foolth accacians and common sallies and is tender.

Vux populus, as we say in hickoryhockery, and I wish we had some more glasses of arbor vitae.

Why root by the roadside or awn over alum pot?

Alderman Whitebeam is oaky-o.)

He ought to go away for a change of ideas.

And he’d have a world of things to look back on.

Do, sweet Daniel!

If I weren’t a jones in myself I’d elect myself to be his dolphin in the wildsbillow because he is such a bare-footed rubber with my supersocks pulled over his face which I publicked in my bestback garden for the laetification of siderodromites and to the irony of the stars.

And he wants my addition of meal, meat, bread, butter, dripping, eggs, tea and cabbage with a doorstep!

I ought not to indulge on this stage still I will think he is so very allirish!

You will say it is most un-english and I shall hope to hear that you will not be wrong about it.

But I further, feeling a bit husky in my truths … Will you please come over and let us mooremoore murgessly to each’s other down below our vices.

i am being underheerd by old billfaust.

wilsh is full of curks.

the coolskittle is philip deblinite.

mr wist is thereover beyeind the wantnot.

wilsh and wist are as thick of thins udder as faust on the deblinite.

Sgunoshooto estas preter la tapizo malgranda.

Li legas al si en sia chambro.

Kelkefoje funcktas, kelkefoje srumpas shultroj.

Houdiau kiel vi fartas, mia nigra sinjoro?

And from the poignt of fun where I am crying to arrive you at they are on all fore as foibleminded as you can feel they are fablebodied.

My heeders will recoil with great leisure how at the outbreak before trespassing on the space question where even michelangelines have fooled to dread I proved to mindself as to your sotisfiction how his abject all through (the quickquid of Professor Ciondoloni’s too frequently hypothecated Bettlermensch) is nothing so much more than a mere cashdime, however genteel he may want ours, if we please (I am speaking to us in the second person), to feel about it, for to this graded intellacktuals dime is cash and the cash system (you must not be allowed to forget that this is all contained, I mean the system, in the dogmarks of origen on spurios) means that I cannot now have or nothave a piece of cheeps in your pocket at the same time and with the same manners as you can now nothalf or half the cheek apiece I’ve in mind unless Burrus and Caseous have not or not have seemaultaneously sysentangled themselves, selldear to soldthere, once in the dairy days of buy and buy.

Burrus, let us like to imagine, is a genuine prime, the real choice, full of natural greace, the mildest of milkstoffs yet unbeaten as a risicide and, of course, obsoletely unadulterous, whereat Caseous is obversely the revise of him and in fact not an ideal choose by any meals, though the betterman of the two is meltingly addicted to the more casual side of the arrivalist’s case and, let me say it at once, as zealous over him as is passably he.

The seemsame home and histry seeks and hidepence which we used to be reading for our prepurgatory (hot, Schott?)

till Duddy shut the shopper op and Mutti (poor Mutti!)

brought us our poor suppy (ah who!

eh how!!)

in Acetius and Oleosus and Sellius Volatilis and Petrus Papricus!

Our Old Party quite united round the Slatbowel at Commons: Pfarrer Salamoss himself and that sprog of a Pedersill and his Sprig of Thyme and a dozen of the Murphybuds and a score and more of the hot young Capels and Lettucia in her greensleeves and you too and me three, twinsome bibs but hansome ates, like shakespill and eggs!

But there’s many a split pretext bowl and jowl; and (snob screwing that cork, Schott!)

to understand this as well as you can, feeling how backward you are in your down-to-the-ground benches, I have completed the following arrangement for the coarse use of stools.

Cheese it.

The older sisars (tyrants, regicide is too good for you and if I don’t make away with you I’m beyond Caesar outnullused!

), become unbeurrable from age (the compositor of the farce of dustiny however makes a thumpledrum mistake by letting off this pienofarte effect as his furst act as that is where the juke comes in), having been sort-of-nineknived and chewly removed (this soldier-author-batman for all his commontoryism is just another of those souftsiezed bubbles who never quite got the sandhurst out of his eyes so that the champaign he draws for us is as flop as a plankrieg) the twin-freer types are billed to make their reupprearance as the knew kneck and knife knickknots on the deserted champ de bouteilles.

A most cursery reading into the Persic-Uraliens hostery shows us how Fonnumagogula picked up that propper numen out of a colluction of prifixes, though to the permienting cannasure the Coucousien oafsprung of this sun of a kuk is as sattin as there’s a tub in Tobolosk.

Ostiak della Vogul Marina!

But that I dannoy the fact of wanton to weste point I could paint you to that butter if you had some wash. Mordvealive!

On me none onsens!

Why the case is as inessive and impossive as kezom hands!

Their interlocative is conprovocative just as every hazzy hates to having a hazbane in her hoze.

Caseous may hethink himself a thought of a caviller but Burrus has the reachly roundered head that goes best with thoftthinking defensive fideism.

He has the lac of wisdom under every dent in his lofter, while the other follow’s onni vesy milky indeedmum.

Laughing over the linnuts and weeping off the uniun.

He hisn’t the hey og he lisn’t the lug, poohoo!

And each night sim misses mand he winks he had the semagen.

It was aptly and corrigidly stated (and it is royally needless for one—ex ungue Leonem—to say by whom) that his seeingscraft was that clarety as were the whole-borough of Saint Poutresbourg to be averlaunched over him pitchbatch he could still make out with his augstritch the green moat in Ireland’s Eye.

Let me sell you the fulltroth of Burrus when he wore a younker.

Here it is, and churming too, in six by sevens!

A cleanly line, by the gods!

A king off duty and a jaw for ever!

What brunoesque poportiums, me Ercles!

And what a cheery ripe outlook, good help me Deus v Deus!

If I were to speak my whole mouthful to ariman about it you should call me the ormuzd aliment in your midst of faime.

Eat ye up, heat ye up!

sings the somun in the salm.

Butyrum et mel comedet ut sciat reprobare malum et eligere bonum.

This, of course, also explains why we were taught to play in the childhood: Der Haensli ist ein Butterbrot, fein Butterbrot, mein Butterbrot!

Und Koebi iss dein Schtinkenkot!

Ja!

Ja!

Ja!

This, in fact, just to show you, is Caseous, the brutherscutch or puir tyron: a hole or two, the highstink aforefelt and anygo prigging wurms.

Cheesugh!

you complain.

And Hi Hi High must say you are not Hoa Hoa Hoally in the wrong!

Thus we cannot escape our likes and mislikes, exiles or ambusheers, beggar and neighbour, and so—this is where the dimeshow advertisers advance the temporal relief plea—let us be tolerant of antipathies.

Nex quovis burro num fit mercaseus?

I am not hereby giving my final endorsement to the learned ignorants of the Cusanus philosophism in which old Nicholas pegs it down that the smarter the spin of the top the sounder the span of the buttom.

(What the worthy old auberginiste ought to have meant was: the more stolidly immobile in space appears to me the bottom which is presented to use in time by the top primomobilisk &c.) And I shall be misunderstood if understood to give an unconditional sinequamnunc to the heroicised furibouts of the Nolanus theory, or, at any rate, of that substrate of apart from hissheory where the Theophile swoors by his Father Familiaritas and his Mother Contumelia and by the soul in his suit and the animus in his soul and the mind in his animus and the good in his mind that on principial he was the pointingstart of his odiose by comparison and that whiles eggs will fall cheapened all over the walled the Bure will be dear on the Brie.

Now, while I am not out now to be taken up as unintentionally recommending the Silkebjorg tyrondynamon machine for the more enocomical helixtrolysis of these amboadipates until I can find space to look into it myself a little more closely first, I shall go on with my decisions after having shown to you in good time how both products of our social stomach (the excellent Dr Burroman, I noticed by the way from his emended food theory, has been carefully digesting the very wholesome criticism I helped him to in my princeps edition which is all so munch to the cud) are mutuearly polarised, the incompletude of any delusional acting as ambivalent to the fixation of his pivotism.

Positing, as above, too male pooles, the one the pictor of the other and the omber the ûîôùè of the one, and looking wantingly around our undistributed middle between males, we feel we must waistfully woent a female to focus and on this stage there pleasantly appears the cowrymaid M (whom we shall often meet below) who introduces herself upon us at some precise hour which we shall again agree to call absolute zero or the babbling pumpt of platinism.

And so like that former son of a kish who went up and out to found his farmer’s ashes we come down home gently on our own turnedabout asses to meet Margareen.

We now romp through a period of pure lyricism of shamebred music (technologically, let me say, the appetising entry of this subject on a fool chest of vialds is plumply pudding the carp before doevre hors) evidenced by such words in distress as I cream for thee, sweet Margareen!

and the more hopeful O Margareena!

O Margareena!

Still in the bowl is left a lump of gold!

(Correspondents, by the way, will keep on asking me what is the correct garnish to serve drisheens with.

Tansy sauce.

Enough.)

The pawnbreaking pathos of the first of these shoddy pieces reveals it as a Caseous effort.

Burrus’s bit is often used for a toast.

Criniculture can tell us very precisely indeed how and why this particular streak of yellow silver first appeared on (not in) the bowl, that is to see, the human head, bald, black, bronze, brown, brindled, betteraved or blanchemanged, where it might be usefully compared with an earwig on a fullbottom.

I am offering this to Signorina Cuticura and I intend to take it up and bring it under the nosetice of Herr Harlene by way of diverting his attentions.

Of course, the unskilled singer continues to pervert our wiser ears by subordinating the space-element, that is to sing, the aria, to the time-factor, which ought to be killed, ill tempor.

I should advise any unborn singer who may still be among my heeders to forget her temporal diaphragm at home (the best thing that could happen to it!)

and attack the roulade with a swift colpo di glottide to the lug (though Maace I will insist was reclined from overdoing this, his recovery often being slow) and then O!

on the third dead beat O!

to cluse her eyes and awpen her oath and see what spice I may send her.

How?

Cease thee, cantatrickee!

I fain would be solo.

Arouse thee, my valour!

And save for e’er my true Bdur!

I shall have a word to say in a few yards about the acoustic and orchidectural management of the tonehall but, as ours is a vivarious where one plant’s breaf is a lunger planner’s byscent and you may not care for the argon, it will be very convenient for me for the emolument to pursue Burrus and Caseous for a rung or two up their isocelating biangle.

Every admirer of my “blank manner” has seen with eyes watered my goulache of Marge (she is so like the sister, you don’t know, and they both dress A L I K E!)

which I titled The Very Picture of a Needlesswoman and which in the presence ornates our national cruetstand.

This genre of portraiture of changes of mind in order to be truly torse should evoke the bush soul of the females so I am leaving it to the experienced victim to complete the general suggestion by the mental addition of a wallopy bound or, should the zulugical zealot prefer it, a congorool teal.

The hatboxes which compose Rhomba, Lady Trabezond (Marge in her excelsis), also comprise the climactogram up which B and C may fondly be imagined ascending and are suggestive of gentlemen’s spring modes, these modes carrying us back to the superimposed claylayers of eocene and pleastoseen formation and the gradual morphological changes in our body politic which Professor Ebahi-Ahuri of Philadespoinis (Ill)—whose bluebutterbust I have just given his coupe de grass to—neatly names a boîte à surprises.

The boxes, if I may break the subject gently, are worth about fourpence pourbox but I am inventing a more patent process, foolproof and pryperfect (I should like to ask that Shedlock Homes person who is out for removing the roofs of our criminal classics by what deductio ad domunum he hopes de tacto to detect anything unless he happens of himself, movibile tectu, to have a slade off), after which they can be reduced to a fragment of their true crust by even the youngest of Margees, if she will take plase to be seated and smile if I please.

Now there can be no question about it either that I, having done as much, have quite got the size of that demilitery young female (we will continue to call her Marge) whose types may be met with in any public garden, wearing a very “dressy” affair, known as an “ethel”, of instep length and with a real fur, reduced to 3/9, and muffin cap (they are “angelskin” this fall) to tone, ostentatiously hemming apologetically over the shirtness of some “sweet” garment, when she is not sitting on all the free benches avidously reading about “it” but ovidently on the lookout for “him” or so “thrilled” about the best dressed dolly pram and beautiful elbow competition or at the movies swallowing sobs and blowing bixed mixcuits over “Childe” chaplain’s “latest” or on the verge of the gutter with some bobbedhair brieffrocked babyma’s toddler (the Smythe-Smythes now keep TWO domestics and aspire to THREE male ones, a “shover”, a “butlegger” and a “sectary”) held hostage at armslength, teaching His Infant Majesty how to make waters worse.

I am closely watching Master Pules, as I have regions to suspect from my post that her “little man” is a secondary schoolteacher under the boards of education, a voted disciple of Infantulus, who is being utilised thus publicly by the seducente infanta to conceal her own more mascular personality by flaunting frivolish finery over men’s inside clothes.

For the femininny of that totamulier will always lack the musculink of a verumvirum.

My solotions for the proper parturience of matres and the education of micturious mites must stand over from the moment till I tackle this tickler hussy for occupying my uttentions.
