
Of the persins sin this Eyrawyggla saga (which, thorough readable to int from and, is from tubb to buttom all falsetissues, antilibellous and nonactionable and this applies to its whole wholume) poor Osti-Fosti, described as quite a musical genius in a small way and the owner of an exceedingly niced ear, with tenorist voice to match, not alone, but a very major poet of the poorly meritary order (he began Tuonisonian but worked his passage up as far as the we-all-hang-together Animandovites), no one end is known.

If they whistled him before he had curtains up they are whistling him still after his curtain’s doom’s doom.

Ei fù.

His husband, poor old A’Hara (Okaroff?

), crestfallen by things and down at heels at the time, they squeak, accepted the (Zassnoch!)

ardree’s shilling at the conclusion of the Crimean War and, having flown his wild geese, alohned in crowds to warnder on like Shuley Luney, enlisted in Tyrone’s horse, the Irish whites, and soldiered a bit with Wolsey under the assumed name of Blanco Fusilovna Bucklovitch (spurious) after which the cawer and the marble halls of Pump Court Columbarium, the home of the old seakings, looked upon each other and queth their haven evermore for it transpires that on the other side of the water it came about that on the field of Vasileff’s Cornix inauspiciously with his unit he perished, saying, This papal leafless to old chap give, rawl chawclates for mouther-in-louth.

Booil.

Poor old dear Paul Horan, to satisfy his literary as well as his criminal aspirations, at the suggestion thrown out by the doomster in loquacity, so says the Dublin Intelligence, was thrown into a Ridley’s for inmates in the northern counties.

Under the name of Orani he may have been the utility man of the troupe capable of sustaining long parts at short notice.

He was.

Sordid Sam, a dour decent deblaneer, haunted always by his ham, at a word from Israfel the Summoner passed away painlessly after life’s upsomdowns one hallowe’en night, ebbrous and in the state of nature, propelled from the unwashed Behind into the unwished Beyond by footblows coulinclouted upon his oyster and atlas on behanged and behooved and behicked and behulked of his last fishandblood bedscrappers, a Northwegian and his mate of the sheawolving class.

Though the last straw glimt his baring this stage thunkhard is said (the pitfallen gagged him as “Promptboxer”) to have solemenly said—as had the brief thot but fell in till his head like a bass dropt neck fust in till a bung crate (cogged!

): Me drames, O Loughlins, has come through!

Now let the centuple celves of my egourge, as Micholas de Cusack calls them, and of all of whose I in my hereinafter of course by recourse demission me, by the coincidance of their contraries reamalgamerge in that identity of undiscernibles where the Baxters and the Fleshmans may they cease to bidivil uns and (but at this poingt though the iron thrust of his cockspurt start might have prepared us we are wellnigh stinkpotthered by the mustardpunge in the tailend) this outandin brown candlestock melt Nolan’s into peese!

Han var.

Disliker as he was to druriodrama, her wife Langley, the prophet, and the decentest dozendest short of a frusker whoever stuck his spickle through his spoke, disappeared (in which toodooing he has taken all the French leaves unveilable out of Calomnequiller’s Pravities) from the sourface of this earth, that austral plain he had transmaried himself to, so entirely spoorlessly (the mother of the book with a dustwhisk tabularasing his obliterature done upon her involucrum) as to tickle the speculative to all but opine (since the Levey who might have been Langley may have really been a redivivus of paganinism or a volunteer Vousden) that the hobo (who possessed a large amount of the humoresque) had transtuled his funster’s habitat to its finsterest interrimost.

Bhi she.

Again, if Father Dan Browne, tea and toaster to that quaintestest of yarnspinners, is Padre Don Bruno, treu and troster to the queen of Iar-Spain, was the reverend, the sodality director, that eupeptic viceflayer, a barefaced carmelite, to whose palpitating pulpit (which of us but remembers the rarevalent and hornerable Fratomistor Nawlanmore and Brawne?)

sinning society sirens (see the—Roman Catholic—presspassim) fortunately became so enthusiastically attached and was an objectionable ass who very occasionally cockaded a raffles ticket on his hat which he wore all to one side like the hangle of his pan (if Her Elegance saw him she’d have the canary!)

and was semiprivately convicted of malpractices with his hot-washed tableknife (glossing over the cark in his pocket) that same snob of the dunhill, fully several yearschaums riper, encountered by the General on that redletter morning or maynoon jovesday?

Were they?

Fuitfuit.

When Phishlin Phil wants throws his lip ’tis pholly to be fortuneflouting and whoever’s gone to Mix Hotel by the salt say water there’s nix to nothing we can do for he’s never again to sea.

It is nebuless an autodidact fact of the most commonfaced experience that the shape of the average human cloudyphiz, whereas sallow has long daze faded, frequently altered its ego with the possing of the showers.

(Not original!)

Whence it is a slipperish matter, given the wet and low visibility (since in this scherzarade of one’s thousand one nightinesses that sword of certainty which would indentifide the body never falls), to idendifine the individuone in scratch wig, squarecuts, stock, lavaleer, regattable oxeter, baggy pants and shufflers (he is often alluded to as Slypatrick, the llad in the llane) with already an incipience (lust!)

in the direction of area baldness (one is continually flrstmeeting with odd sorts of others at all sorts of ages!)

who was asked by free boardschool shirkers in drenched coats overawall, Will, Conn and Otto, to tell them overagait, Vol, Pov and Dev, that fishabed ghoatstory of the haardly creditable edventyres of the Haberdasher, the two Curchies and the three Enkelchums in their Bearskin ghoats!

Girles and jongers, but he has changed alok syne Thorkill’s time!

Ya, da, tra, gathery, pimp, shesses, shossafat, okodeboko, nine!

Those many warts, those slummy patches, half -sinster wrinkles (what has come over the face on wholebroader ?)

and (shrine of Mount Mu save us!)

the large fungopark he has grown!

Drink!

Sport’s a common thing.

It was the Lord’s own day for damp (to wait for a postponed regatta’s eventualising is not of Battlecock Shettledore-Juxta-Mare only) and the request for a fully armed explanation was put (in Loo of Pat) to the porty (a native of the sisterisle—Meathman or Meccan?—by his brogue, ex-race eyes, lokil calour and lucal odour which are said to have been average clownturkish—though the capelist’s voiced nasal liquids and the way he sneezed at zees haul us back to the craogs and bryns of the Silurian Ordovices—who, the lesser pilgrimage accomplished, had made pats’ and pigs’ older inselt, the southeast bluffs of the stranger stepshore, a regifugium persecutorum, hence hindquarters) as he paused at evenchime for some or so minutes (Hit the pipe, dannyboy!

Time to won, barmon.

I’ll take ten to win.)

amid the devil’s one duldrum (Apples by her blossom window and Charlottes at her tosspanomancy his sole admirers, his only tearts in store) for a fragrend calabash during his weekend pastime of executing with Anny Oakley deadliness (the consummatory pairs of provocatives, of which remained provokingly but two, the ones he fell for, Lili and Tutu, cork em!)

empties which had not very long before contained Reid’s family (you ruad that before, soaky, but all the bottles in soddemd histry will not soften your bloodathirst!)

stout.

Having reprimed his repeater and resiteroomed his timespiece His Revenance, with still a life or two to spare for the space of his occupancy of a world at a time, rose to his feet and there, far from Tolkaheim, in a quiet English garden (commonplace!

), since known as Whiddington Wild, where the joyshots rang no more his simple intensive curolent vocality, my dearbraithers, my most dearbrathairs, as he, so is a supper as is a sipper, spake of the One and told of the Compassionate, called up before the triad of precoxious scaremakers (scoretaking: Spegulo ne helpas al malbellulo, Mi kredas ke vi estas prava, Via dote la vizago rispondas fraulino) the now to ushere mythical habiliments of Our Farfar and Arthor of our doyne.

Television kills telephony in brothers’ broil.

Our eyes demand their turn.

Let there be seen!

And wolfbone balefires blaze the trailmost if only that Mary Nothing may burst her bibby buckshee.

When they set fire then she’s got to glow so we may stand some chances of warming to what every soorkabatcha, tum or hum, would like to know.

The first Humphrey’s latitudinous baver with puggaree behind (calaboose belong bigboss belong Kang the Toll), his fourinhand bow, his elbaroom surtout, the refaced unmansionables of gingerine hue, the vertebrated slate umbrella, his gruff woolselywellesly with the finndrinny knopfs and the gauntlet upon the hand which in an hour not for him solely evil had struck down the mighthe mighthavebeen D’Esterre of whom his nation seemed almost already to be about to have need.

Then, stealing his thunder, but in the befitting legomena of the smaller country (probable words, possibly said, of field family gleaning), a bit duskish and flavoured with a smile, seein as ow his thoughts consisted chiefly of the cheerio, he aptly sketched for our soontobe second parents (sukand see whybe!)

the touching seene.

The solence of that stilling!

Here one might a fin fell.

Boomster rombombonant!

It scenes like a landescape from Wildu Picturescu or some seem om some dimb Arras, dumb as Mum’s mutyness, this mimage of the seventyseventh kusin of Kristansen is odable to os across the wineless Ere no oedor nor mere eerie nor liss potent of suggestion than in the tales of the tingmount.

(Prigged!)

And there oftafter, jauntyjogging, on an Irish visavis, insteadily with shoulder to shoulder Jehu will tell to Christianier, saint to sage, the humphriad of that fall and rise while daisy winks at her pinker sister among the tussocks and the copoll between the shafts mocks the couple on the car.

And as your who may look like how on the owther side of his big belt try your tyrs and cloes your noes and paradigm maymay rererise in eren.

Follow we up his whip vindicative.

Thurston’s!

Lo bebold!

La arboro, lo petrusu.

The augustan peacebetothem oaks, the monolith rising stark from the moonlit pinebarren in all fortitudinous ajaxious rowdinoisy tenuacity, the angelus hour with ditchers bent upon their farm usetensiles, the soft belling of the fallow deers (doerehmoose genuane!)

advertising their milky approach as midnight was striking the hours (letate!

), and how brightly the great tribune outed the sharkskin smokewallet (imitation!)

from his frock, kippers, and, by Joshua, he tips un a topping swank cheroot, none of your swellish soide, quoit the reverse, and how manfally he says, pluk to pluk and lekan for lukan, he was to just pluggy well suck that brown boyo, my son, and spend a whole half hour in Havana.

Sorer of the kreeksmen, would not thore be old high gothsprogue?

Wherefore he met Master, he mean to say, he do, sire, bester of redpublicans, at Eagle Cock Hostel on Lorenzo Tooley Street and how he wished his Honour the bannocks of Gort and Morya and Bri Head and Puddyrick, yore Loudship, and a starchbox sitting in the pit of his St Tomach’s—a strange wish for you, my friend, and it would poleaxe your sonson’s grandson utterly though your own old sweatandswear floruerunts heaved it hoch many as the times when they were turrified be the hitz.

Chee chee cheers for Upkingbilly and crow cru cramwells Downaboo!

Hup, boys, and hat him!

See!

Oilbeam they’re lost we’ve found rerembrandtsers: their hours to date link these heirs to morra but wowhere are those yours of Yesthersdays?

Farseeingetherich and Poolaulwoman, Charachthercuss and his Ann van Vogt.

D.e.e.d?

Edned, ended or sleeping soundlessly?

Favour with your tongues!

Intendite!

Any dog’s life you list you may still hear them at it, like sixes and seventies, as eversure as Halley’s comet, ulemamen, sobranjewomen, storthingboys and dumagirls, as they pass its bleak and bronze portal of your Casaconcordia: Huru more Nee, minny frickans?

Hwoorledes har Dee det?

Losdoor onleft, mladies, cue!

Millecientotrigintadue scudi!

Tippoty, kyrie, tippoty!

Cha kai rotty kai makkar, sahib?

Despenseme Usted, senhor, en son succo, sabez!

O thaw bron orm, A’Cothraige, thinkinthou gaily?

Lick-Pa-flai-hai-pa-Pa-li-si-lang-lang!

Epi alo, écou, Batiste, tuvavnr dans lptit boing coing!

Ismene de bumbac e meias de portocalliu!

O!

O!

Os pipos mios es demasiada gruarso por O piccolo pocchino!

Wee fee?

Ung duro!

Kocshis, szabad?

Mercy, and you?

Gomagh, thak!

And, Cod, says he with mugger’s ears in his eyes (Would you care to know the prise of a liard?

Maggis, nick your nightynovel!

Mass Taverner’s at the mike again!

And that bagbelly is the buck to goat it!

): Meggeg, m’gay chapjappy, I call our univalse to witness, as sicker as moyliffey eggs is known by our good househalters from yorehunderts of mamooth to be which they commercially are in ahoy high British quarters (conventional!)

my guesthouse and cowhaendel credits will immediately stand ohoh open as straight as that neighbouring monument’s fabrication before the hygienic gllll (this was where the reverent sabboth and bottlebreaker with firbalk forthstretched touched upon his tricoloured boater which he uplifted by its pickledhoopy (he gave Stetson one and a penny for it) whileas oleaginosity of ancestralolosis sgocciolated down the both pendencies of his mutsohito liptails (Sencapetulo, a more modestuous conciliabulite never curled a torn pocketmouth), cordially inwitin the adullescence who he was wising up to do in like manner what all did so as he was able to add) lobe before the Great Schoolmaster’s.

(I tell you no story.)

Smile!

The house of Atreox is fallen indeedust (Ilyam, Ilyum!

Maeromor Mournomates!

), averging on blight like the mundinbanks of Fennyana, but deeds bounds going arise again.

Life, he himself said once (his biografiend, in fact, kills him verysoon, if yet not, after), is a wake, livit or krikit, and on the bunk of our breadwinning lies the cropse of our seedfather—a phrase which the establisher of the world by law might pretinately write across the chestfront of all manorwombanborn.

The scene, refreshed, reroused, was never to be forgotten, the hen and crusader ever intermutuomergent, for later in the century one of that puisne band of factferreters (then an excivil (out of the custom huts) (retired), (hurt), (under the sixtyfives act) in a dressy black modern style and wewere shiny tan burlingtons, tam, homd and dicky, quopriquos and peajagd) rehearsed it, pippa pointing, with a dignified bow (copied!)

to a namecousin of the late archdeacon F. X.

Preserved Coppinger (a hot fellow in his night, may the mouther of guard have mastic on him!)

in a pullwoman of our first transhibernian overground with one still sadder circumstance which is a dirkanddurk heartskewerer if ever to bring bounceye brimmers from marbled eyes.

Cycloptically through the windowdisks and with eddying awes the round eyes of the rundreisers, back to back, buck to bucker, on their airish chaunting car, beheld with intouristing anterestedness the clad pursue the bare, the bare the green, the green the frore, the frore the cladagain, as their convoy wheeled encirculingly abound the gigantig’s lifetree, our fireleaved loverlucky blomsterbohm, phoenix in our woodlessness, haughty, cacuminal, erubescent (repetition!

), whose roots they be asches with lustres of peins.

For as often as the Archicadenus, pleacing aside his Irish Field and craving their auriculars to receptacle particulars before they got the bump at Castlebar (mat and far!

), spoke of it by request, all, hearing in this new reading of the part, whereby, because of Dyas in his machina, the new garrickson’s grimacing grimaldism hypostasised by substintuation the axiomatic orerotundity of that once grand old elrington bawl, the copycus’s description of that fellow-commuter’s play upon countenants, could simply imagine themselves, in their bosom’s inmost core, as pro tem locum timesported acorss the yawning (abyss), as once they were, seasiders listening to the cockshyshooter’s evensong evocation of the doomed but always ventriloquent Agitator (no not more plangorpound the billows o’er Thounawahallya Reef!

), silkhouatted, a whalrhosmightiadd, aginsst the dusk of skumring (would that fane be Saint Muezzin’s calling—holy places!—and this fez brimless as brow of faithful, toucher of the ground, did wish it were—blessed be the bones!—the ghazi, power of his sword!

), his manslayer’s gunwielder protended towards that overgrown leadpencil which was soon, monomentally at least, to rise as Molyvdokondylon to, to be, to be his mausoleum (O’dan stod til steyne at meisies aye skould show pon), while ollover his exculpatory features, as Roland rung, a wee dropeen of grief about to sillonise his jouejous, the ghost of resignation diffused a spectral appealingness, as a young man’s drowm o’er the fate of his waters may gloat, similar in origin and akkurat in effect to a beam of sunshine upon a coffinplate.

Not olderwise Inn the days of the Bygning would our Traveller, remote, unfriended, from van Demon’s Land, some lazy skald or maundering pote, lift wearywilly his slowcut snobsic eyes to the semisigns of his zooteac and, lengthily lingering along flaskneck, cracketcup, downtrodden brogue, turfsod, wildbroom, cabbageblad, stockfisch, longingly learn that there at the Angel were herberged for him poteen and tea and praties and baccy and wine width woman wordth warbling: and informally quasibegin to presquesm’ile to queasithin’… (Nonsense!

There was not very much windy Nous blowing at the given moment through the hat of Mr Melancholy Slow!)

But in the pragma and by laws of casuality what formal cause made a smile of that tothink?

Who, under ye great bow of ’s heaven, was he to whom?

O’Breen’s not his name nor the brown one his maid.

Whose in thunder and weddin and soddin and order are the placewheres?

Kiswasti, kisker, kither, kitnabudja?

Tal the tem of the tumulum.

Giv the gav of the grube.

Be it cudgelplayers’ country or fishfellows’ town or leeklickers’ land or paubpanungopovengreskey.

What regnans raised the rains have levelled but we hear the pointers and can gauge their compass for the melos yields the mode and the mode the manners, plicyman, plausiman, plousiman, plab.

Tsin tsin tsin tsin!

The forefarther folkers for a prize of two peaches with Ming, Ching and Shunny on the lie low lea.

We’ll sit down on the hope of the ghouly ghost for the titheman troubleth but his hantitat hies not here.

They answer from their zoans.

Hear the four of them!

Hark, torroar of them!

I, says Armagh, and a’m proud o’ it.

I, says Clonakilty, God help us!

I, says Deansgrange, and say nothing.

I, says Barna, and what about it?

Hee haw!

Before he fell hill he filled heaven: a sdream, alplapping streamlet, coyly coiled um, cool of her curls.

We were but thermites then, wee, wee.

Our antheap we sensed as an Hill of Allen, the Barrow for an People, one Jotnursfjaell: and it was a grummelung amung the porktroop that wonderstruck us as thunder yunder.

Thus the unfacts, did we possess them, are too imprecisely few to warrant our certitude, the evidencegivers by legpoll too untrustworthily irreperible where his adjudgers are seemingly freak threes but his judicandees plainly minus twos.

Nevertheless Madam’s Toshowus waxes largely more lifeliked (entrance, one kudos; exits, free) and our notional gullery is now completely complacent, an exegious monument, aerily perennious.

Oblige with your blackthorns; gamps, degrace!

And there many have paused before that exposure of him by old Tom Quad, a flashback in which he sits sated, gowndabout, in clericalease habit, watching bland Sol slithe dodgsomely into the nethermore, a globule of maugdleness about to corrugitate his mild dewed cheek and the tata of a tiny victorienne, Alys, pressed by his limper looser.

Yet certes one is.

Eher the following winter had overed the pages of nature’s book and till Ceadurbar-atta-Cleath became Dablena Tertia, the shadow of the huge outlander, maladik, multvult, magnoperous, had bulked at the bar of a rota of tribunals, in manor hall as in thieves’ kitchen, mid pillow talk and chithouse chat, on Marlborough Green as through Molesworth Fields, here sentenced pro tried with Jedburgh justice, there acquitted con testimony with benefit of clergy.

His Thing Mod have undone him: and his madthing has done him man.

His beneficiaries are legion: they number up his years.

Greatwheel Dunlop was the name was on him in the part he created: behung, all we are his bisaacles.

As hollyday in his house so was he priest and king to that: ulvy came, envy saw, ivy conquered.

Lou!

lou!

They have waved his green boughs o’er him as they have torn him limb from lamb.

For his muertification and uxpiration and dumnation and annuhulation.

With schreis and grida, deprofound souspirs.

Steady, sullivans!

Mannequins, pause!

Longtong’s breach is fallen down but Graunya’s spreed’s abroad.

Ahdostay, feedailyones, and feel the Flucher’s bawls!

For the total of your flout is not fit to fan his fettle, O!

Have a ring and sing wohl!

Chin, chin!

Chin, chin!

And of chorus all chimed din width the eatmost boviality.

Swiping rums and beaunes and sherries and ciders and negus and citronnades too.

The strongers: Oho, oho, Mester Begge, you’re about to be bagged in the bog again.

Bugge.

But softsies seufsighed: Eheu, for gassies!

But, lo!

lo!

by the threnning gods, human, erring and condonable, what the statues of our kuo, who is the messchef be our kuang, ashu ashure there, the unforgettable treeshade looms up behind the jostling judgments of those, as all should owe, malrecapturable days.

Tap and pat and tapatagain (fire firstshot, Missiers the Refuseleers!

Peingpeong!

For saxonlootie!

), three tommix, soldiers free, cockaleak and cappapee, of the Coldstream Guards were walking in (pardonnez-leur, je vous en prie, eh?)

Montgomery Street.

One voiced an opinion in which on either side (pardonnez!

), nodding, all the Finner Camps concurred (je vous en prie, eh?).

It was the first woman, they said, souped him that fatal wellesday, Lili Coninghams, by suggesting him they go in a field.

Wroth mod eldfar, ruth redd stillstand, wrath wrackt wroth, confessed private Pat Marchison retro.

(Terse!)

Thus contenters with santoys play.

One of our coming Vauxhall on-theboards who is resting for the moment (she has been callit by a noted stagey elecutioner a wastepacket Sittons) was interfeud in a waistend pewty parlour.

Looking perhaps even more pewtyflushed in her cherryderry padouasoys, girdle and braces by the Halfmoon and Seven Stars, russets from the Blackamoor’s Head, amongst the climbing boys at his Eagle and Child and over the corn and hay emptors at their Black and All Black, Mrs F— A— saidaside, half in stage of whisper to her confidante glass, while recoopering her cartwheel chapot (ahat!

we now know what thimbles a’baquets on lallance o’talls mean), she hoped Sid Arthar would git a Chrissman’s portrout of orange and lemonsized orchids with holleggs and ether, from the feeatre of the Innocident, as the worryld had been uncained.

Then, while it is odrous comparisoning to the sprangflowers of his burstday which was a viridable goddinpotty for the reinworms and the charlattinas and all branches of climatitis, it has been such a wanderful noyth untirely, added she, with many regards to Maha’s pranjapansies.

(Tart!)

Prehistoric, obitered to his dictaphone an entychologist, his propenomen is a properismenon.

A dustman nocknamed Sevenchurches in the employ of Messrs Ashburn, Soulpetre and Ashreborn, prairmakers, Glintalook, was asked by the sisterhood the vexed question during his middag collation of leaver and buckrom alternatively with stenk and kitteney phie in a hashhoush and, thankeaven, responsed impulsively: We have just been propogandering his nullity suit and what they took out of his ear among my own crush.

All our fellows at O’Dea’s sages with Aratar Calaman he is a cemented brick, buck it all!

A more nor usually sober cardriver, who was jauntingly hosing his runabout, Ginger Jane, took a strong view.

Lorry hosed her as he talked and this is what he told rewritemen: Irewaker is just a plain pink joint reformee in private life but folks all have it by brehemons laws he has parliamentary honours.

Eiskaffier said (Louigi’s, you know that man’s, brillant savourain): Mon foie, you wish to ave some homelette, yes, lady?

Good, mein leber!

Your hegg he must break himself.

See, I crack, so, he sit in the poele, umbedimbt!

A perspirer (over sixty) who was keeping up his tennises panted he kne ho har twa to clect infamatios but a diffpair flannels climb wall and trespassing on doorbell.
