And our local busybody, talker-go-bragk?

Worse again!

Off of that praying fan on to them priars!

It would be a whorable state of affairs altogether for the red columnists of presswritten epics, Peter Paragraph and Paulus Puff (I’m keepsoaking them to cover my concerts), to get ahold of for their balloons and shoot you private by surprise, considering the marriage slump that’s on this oil age and pulexes three shillings a pint and wives at six and seven when domestic calamities belame par and newlaids bellow mar for the twenty two toosent time thwealthy took thousands in the slack march of civilisation, were you, becoming guilty of unleckylike intoxication, to have and to hold, to pig and to pay, direct connection, qua intervener, with a prominent married member of the vicereeking squad and, in consequence of the hereinunder subpenas, be flummoxed to the second degree by becoming a detestificated companykeeper on the dammymonde of Lucalamplight.

Anything but that, for the fear and love of gold!

Once and for all, I’ll have no college swankies (you see I am well voiced in love’s arsenal and all its overtures from collion boys to colleen bawns, so I have every reason to know that rogues’ gallery of nightbirds and bitchfanciers, lucky duffs and light lindsays, haughty hamiltons and gay gordons, dosed, doctored and otherwise, messing around skirts and what their fickling intentions look like, you make up your mind to that) trespassing on your danger zone in the dancer years.

If ever I catch you at it, mind, it’s you that will cocottch it!

I’ll tackle you to feel if you have a few devils in you.

Holy gun, I’ll give it to you, hot, high and heavy, before you can say sedro!

Or may the maledictions of Lousyfear fall like nettlerash on the white friar’s father that converted from moonshine the fostermother of the first nancy-free that ran off after the trumpadour that mangled Moore’s melodies and so upturned the tubshead of the stardaft journalwriter to inspire the prime finisher to fellhim the firtree out of which Cooper Funnymore planed the flat of the beerbarrel on which my grandydad’s lustiest sat his seat of unwisdom with my tante’s petted sister for the cause of his joy!

Amine.

Poof!

There’s puff for ye, begorra, and planxty of it, all abound me breadth!

Glor galore and glory be!

As broad as its lung and as long as a line!

The valiantine vaux of Venerable Val Vousdem.

If my jaws must brass away like the due drops on my lay.

And the topnoted delivery you’d expected be me invoice!

Theo Dunnohoo’s warning from Daddy O’Dowd.

Whoo?

What I’m wondering to myselfwhose for there’s a strong tendency, to put it mildly, by making me the medium.

I feel spirts of itchery outching out from all over me and only for the sludgehummer’s force in my hand to hold them the darkens alone knows what’ll who’ll be saying of next.

However.

Now, before my upperotic rogister, something nice.

Now?

Dear sister, in perfect leave again I say take a brokerly advice and keep it to yourself that we, Jaun, first of our name, here now make all receptacles of, free of price.

Easy, my dear, if they tingle you either say nothing or nod.

No cheekacheek with chipperchapper, you and your last mashboy and the padre in the pulpbox enumerating you his nostrums.

Be vacillant over those vigilant who would leave you to belave black on white.

Close in for psychical hijinks as well but fight shy of mugpunters.

I’d burn the books that grieve you and light an allassundrian bompyre that would suffragate Tome Plyfire or Zolfanerole.

Perousse instate your Weakly Standerd, our verile organ that is ethelred by all pressdom.

Apply your five wits to the four verilatest.

The Arsdiken’s An Traitey on Miracula or Viewed to Death by a Priest Hunter is still first in the field despite the castle bar.

William Archer’s a rompan good cathalogue and he’ll give you a riser on the route to our nazional labroury.

Skim over Through Hell with the Papes (mostly boys) by the divine comic Denti Alligator (exsponging your index) and find a quip in a quire arisus aream from bastardtitle to fatherjohnson.

Swear aloud by pious fiction the like of Lentil Lore by Carnival Cullen or that Percy Wynns of our S. J. Finn’s or Pease in Plenty by the Curer of Wars, the two best sells on the market this luckiest year, set up by Gill the father, put out by Gill the son and circulating disimally at Gillydehooly’s cost, licensed and censered by our most picturesque prelates, Their Graces of Linzen and Petitbois, bishops of the Hibernites, licet ut lebanus, for expansion on the promises.

Strike up a nodding acquaintance for our doctrine with the works of old Mrs Trot, senior, and Manoel Canter, junior, and Loper de Figas, nates maximum.

I used to follow Mary Liddlelambe’s flitsy tales, espicially with the scentaminted sauce.

Sifted science will do your arts good.

Egg Laid by Former Cock and With Flageolettes in Send Fanciesland.

Chiefly girls.

Trip over sacramental tea into the long lives of our saints and saucerdotes, with vignettes, cut short into instructual primers by those in authority for the bittermint of your soughts.

Forget not the palsied.

Light a match for poor old Contrabally and send some balmoil for the schizmatics.

A hemd in need is aye a friendly deed.

Remember, maid, thou must art powder but Cinderella thou dust return.

(What are you rubbing her sleeve for, Ruby?

And pull in your tongue, Polly!)

Cog that out of your teen times, everyone!

The lad who brooks no breaches lifts the lass that toffs a tailor.

How dare ye be laughing out of your mouthshine at the lack of that?

Keep cool your fresh chastity which is far, far better, far.

Sooner than part with that vestalite emerald of the first importance, descended to me by far from our family, which you treasure up so closely in the sanctuary where your nether extremes meet, nay, morzed lesmended, rather let the whole ekumene universe belong to merry Hal and do whatever his Mary well likes.

When the gong goes for hornets-to-nest marriage step into your harness and strip off that nullity suit.

Faminy, hold back!

For the race is to the rashest of, the romping, jomping rushes of.

Haul Seton’s down, black, green and grey, and hoist Mikealy’s whey and sawdust.

What’s overdressed if underclothed?

Poposht forstake me knot where there’s white lets ope.

Whisht!

Blesht she that walked with good Jook Humprey for he made her happytight.

Go!

You can down all the dripping you can dumple to, and buffkid scouse too ad libidinum, in these lassitudes if you’ve parents and things to look after.

That was what stuck to the Comtesse Cantilene while she was sticking out Mavis Toffeelips to feed her soprannated huspals and it is henceforth associated with her names.

La Dreeping!

Die Droopink!

The inimitable in puresuet of the inevitable!

There’s nothing to touch it, we are taucht, unless she’d care for a mouthpull of white pudding, for the wish is on her rose marine and the lunch-light in her eye.

So when you pet the rollingpin write my name on the pie.

Guard that gem, Sissy, rich and rare, ses he.

In this cold old worold who’ll feel it?

Hum!

The jewel you’re all so cracked about there’s flitty few of them gets it, for there’s nothing now but the sable stoles and a runabout to match it.

Sing him a ring.

Touch me low.

And I’ll lech ye so, my soandso.

Show and show.

Show on show.

She.

Shoe.

Shone.

Divulge, sjuddenly jouted out hardworking Jaun, kicking the console to his double and braying aloud like Brahaam’s ass and, as his voixe humaner swelled to great, clenching his manlies, so highly strong was he, man, and gradually quite warming to her (there must have been a power of kinantics in that buel of gruel he gobed at bedgo), divorce unto me and say the curname in undress (if you get into trouble with a party you are not likely to forget his appearance either) of any lapwhelp or sleevemongrel who talks to you upon the road where he tuck you to be a roller, O, and (the goat-tanned saxopeeler upshotdown chigs peek of him!)

volunteers to trifle with your roundlings for profferred glass and dough, the marrying hand that his leisure repents of, without taking out his proper password from the eligible ministriss for affairs with the black fremdling, that enemay of our country, in a cleanlooking light and (I don’t care a tongser’s tammany hang who the mucky is nor twoo hoots in the corner nor three shouts on a hill, were he even a constantineapolitan namesuch of my very own, Alltaboy Knowling, and like enoch to my townmajor ancestors, the two that are taking out their divorces in the Spooksbury courts circuits, Rere Uncle Remus, the Baas of Eboracum, and Old Father Ulissabon Knickerbocker, the lanky Sire of Wolverhampton, about their bristelings) as true as there’s a soke for sakes in Twoways Petersborough and sure as home we come to newsky prospeckt from west the wave on schedule time (if I came any quicker I’ll be right back before I left) from the land of breach of promise, with Brendan’s mantle whitening the Kerribrasilian sea and March’s pebbles spinning from beneath our footslips, to carry fire and sword, rest insured that as we value the very name Insister that as soon as we do possibly it will be a poor lookout for that insister.

He’s a markt man from that hour.

And why do we say that, you may query me?

Quary?

Guess!

Call’st thou?

Think and think and think, I urge on you.

Muffed!

The wrong porridge!

You are an ignoratis!

Because then probably we’ll dumb well soon show him what the Shaun way is like how we’ll go a long way towards breaking his outsider’s face for him for making up to you with his bringthee balm of Gaylad and his singthee songs of Arupee and chancerying my ward’s head into sanctuary before feeling with his two dimensions for your nuptial dito.

Ohibow, if I was Blonderboss I’d gooandfrighthisdualman!

Now, we’ll tell you what we’ll do to be sicker instead of compensation.

We’ll he’ll burst our his mouth like Leary to the Leinsterface and reduce he’ll we’ll ournhisn liniments to a poolp.

Open the door softly, somebody wants you, dear!

You’ll hear him calling you, bump, like a blizz, in the muezzin of the turkest night.

Come on now, pillarbox!

I’ll stiffen your scribeall, broken reed!

That’ll be it, grand operoar style, even should I, with my sleuts of hogpew and cheekas, have to coomb the brash of the libs round Close Saint Patrice to lay my louseboob on his behaitch like Toss.

We are all eyes.

I have his quoram of images all on my retinue, Mohomadhawn Mike.

Brass up!

Moreover, after that, bad manners to me if I don’t think strongly about giving the brotherkeeper into custody to the first police bubby cunstabless of Dora’s Diehards in the field I might chance to follopon.

Or, for that matter, for your information, if I get the wind up what do you bet in the buckets of my wrath I mightn’t even take it into my progromme, as sweet course, to do a rash act and pitch in and swing for your perfect stranger in the meadow of heppiness and then wipe the street up with the clonmellian, pending my bringing proceedings verses the joyboy before a bunch of magistrafes and twelve good and gleeful men?

Take warning!

Filius nullius per fas et nefas.

It should prove more or less of an event and show the widest federal in my cap.

He’ll have pansements then for his pensamientos, howling for peace.

Pretty knocks, I promise him, with plenty burkes for his shins.

Dumnlimn wimn humn.

In which case I’ll not be complete in fighting lust until I contrive to half kill your Charley you’re my darling for you and send him to Home Surgeon Hume, the algebrist, before his appointed time, particularly should he turn out to be a man in brown about town, Rollo the Gunger, wants a flurewaltzer to Arnolff’s, picking up ideas, of well over or about fiftysix or so, pithecoid proportions, with perhops five foot eight, the usual X Y Z type, R.C., Toc H, nothing but claret, not in the studbook by a long stretch, with a toothbrush moustache and jaw crockeries, alias grinner through collar, and of course no beard, meat and colmans suit, with tar’s baggy slacks obviously too roomy for him and springside boots, washing tie, Father Mathew’s bridge pin, sipping some Wheatley’s at Rhoss’s on a barstool with some pubpal of the Olaf Stout kidney, always trying to poorchase movables by hebdomedaries for to putt in a new house to loot, cigarette in his holder, with a good job and pension in Buinness’s, what about our trip to Normandy style of conversation, with an occasional they say that filmacoulored featured at the Mothrapurl skrene about Michan and his lost angeleens is corkyshows do moorvaloos, blueygreen eyes a bit scummy, developing a series of angry boils with certain references to the Deity, seeking relief in alcohol and so on, general omnibus character with a dash of railway brain, stale cough and an occasional twinge of claudication, having his favourite fecundclass family of upwards of a decade, both harefoot and loadenbrogued, to boot and buy off, Imean.

So let it be a knuckle or an elbow, I hereby admonish you!

It may all be topping fun but it’s tip and run and touch and flow for every whack when Marie stopes Phil fluther’s game to go.

Arms arome, side aside, face into the wall.

To the tumble of the toss tot the trouble of the swaddled, O.

And lest there be no misconception, Miss Forstowelsy, over who to fasten the plightforlifer on (threehundred and thirty three to one on Rue the Day!)

when the nice little smellar squalls in his crydle what the dirty old bigger’ll be squealing through his coughin, you better keep in the gunbarrel straight around vokseburst as I recommence you to (you gypseyeyed baggage, do you hear what I’m praying?)

or, Gash, without butthering my head to assortail whose stroke forced or which struck backly, I’ll be all over you myselx horizontally, as the straphanger said, for knocking me with my name and yourself and your babybag down at such a great sacrifice with a rap of the gavel to a third price cowhandler as cheap as the niggerd’s dirt (for sale!)

or I’ll smack your fruitflavoured jujube lips well for you, so I will well for you, if you don’t keep a civil tongue in your pigeonhouse.

The pleasures of love lasts but a fleeting but the pledges of life outlusts a lieftime.

I’ll have it in for you.

I’ll teach you bed minners, tip for tap, not to be playing your oddaugghter tangotricks with micky dazzlers, if I find corsehairs on your riverfrock and the squirmside of your burberry lupitally covered with chiffchaff and shavings.

Up Rosemiry Lean and Potanasty Rod you wos, wos you?

I overstand you, you understand.

Asking Annybettyelsas to carry your parcels and you dreaming of net glory.

You’ll ging nae maer wi’ Wolf the Ganger!

Cutting chapel, were you?

And had dates with slickers in particular hotels, had we?

Lonely went to play your mother, isod?

You was wiffriends?

Hay, dot’s a doll yarn!

Mark mean then!

I’ll homeseek you, Luperca, as sure as there’s a palatine in Limerick, and, in striped conference, here’s how, if you’re my rodeo gell.

Nerbu de Bios!

If yous twos goes to walk upon the railway, Gard, and I’ll goad to beat behind the bush!

See to it!

Snip!

It’s up to you.

I’ll be hatsnatching harrier to hiding huries hinder hedge.

Snap!

I’ll tear up your limpshades and lock all your trotters in a closet, I will, and cut your silkskin into garters.

You’ll give up your ashand-brothel ways when I make you reely smart.

So skelp your budd and kiss the hurt!

I’ll have plenary sadisfaction, plays the bishop, for your partial’s indulgences.

Fair man and foul suggestion.

There’s a lot of lecit pleasure coming bangslanging your way, Miss Pimpernelly Satin.

For your own good, you understand, for the man who lifts his pud to a woman is saving the way for kindness.

You’ll rebmemer your mottob, Aveh Tiger Roma, mikely smarter the nickst time.

For I’ll just draw my prancer and give you one splitpuck in the crupper, you understand, that will bring the poppy blush of shame to your peony hindmost till you yelp papapardon and radden your rhodatantarums to the beat of calorrubordolor, I am, I do and I suffer (do you hear me now, lickspoon, and stop looking at your bussycat bow in the slate!

), that you won’t obliterate for the bulkier part of a running year, failing to give a good account of yourself, if you think I’m so tan cupid as all that.

Lights out now (bouf!

), tight and sleep on it!

And that’s how I’ll bottle your greedypuss beautibus for ye, me bullin heifer, for ’tis I that have the peer of arrams that carry a wallop.

Between them.

Unbeknownst to you would ire turn o’er see, a nuncio would I return here.

How (from the sublime to the ridiculous) times out of oft, my future, shall we think with deepest of love and recollection by introspection of thee but me far away on the pillow, breathing fondly o’er my names all through the empties, whilst moidhered by the rattle of the doppeldoorknockers.

Our homerole poet to Ostelinda, Fred Wetherly, puts it somewhys better.

You’re sitting on me style, maybe, whereoft I helped yous ore. Littlegame rumilie from Liffaslidebankum (Toobliqueme!)

but a big corner fill you do in this unadulterated seat of our affections.

Aerwenger’s my breed so may we uncreepingly multipede like the sands on Amberham!

Sevenheavens, O heaven!

Iy waount yiou!

Yore ways to melittleme were wonderful so Ick am purseproud in sending yum loveliest pansiful thoughts touching me dash in-you through wee dots Hyphen, the so pretty arched godkin of bedding-nights.

If I’ve proved to your sallysfashion how I’m a man of Armor let me so, let me sue, let me see your isabellis.

How I shall, should I survive, as, please the uniter of U.M.I.

hearts, I am living in hopes to do, replacing mig wandering handsup in yawers, so yeager for mitch, positively cover the two pure chicks of your comely plumpchake with zuccherikissings, hong, kong, and so gong, that I’d scare the bats out of the ivfry one of those muggy mornings, honestly, by my rantandog and daddyoak, I will, become come coming when, upon the mingling of our meeting waters, wish to wisher, like massive mountains to part no more, you will there and then, in those happy moments of ouryour soft accord, rainkiss on me back, for full marks with shouldered arms, and in that united I.R.U.

state when I come (touf!

touf!)

wildflier’s fox into my own green geese again, swap sweetened smugs, six of one for half a dozen of the other, till they’ll bet we’re the cuckoo derby when cherries next come back to Ealing as come they must, as they musted in their past, as they must for my pressing season, as hereinafter must they chirrywill immediately suant on my safe return to ignorance and bliss in my horseless Coppal Poor, through suirland and noreland, kings country and queens, with my ropes of pearls for gamey girls the way ye’ll hardly.

Knowme.

Slim ye, come slum with me and rally rats’ roundup!

’Tis post purification we will, sales of work and social service, missus, completing our Abelite union by the adoptation of fosterlings.

Embark for Euphonia!

Up Murphy, Henson and O’Dwyer, the Warchester Warders!

I’ll put in a shirt time if you’ll get through your shift and betwine us in our shared slaves, brace to brassiere and shouter to shunter, we’ll pull off our working programme.

Come into the garden guild and be free of the gape athome!

We’ll circumcivicise all Dublin country.

Let us, the real Us, all ignite in our pre-purgatory grade as aposcals and be instrumental to utensilise our Jakeline sisters clean out the hogshole and generally ginger things up.

Meliorism in massquantities, raffling receipts and sharing sweepstakes till navel, spokes and felloes hum like hymn.

Burn only what’s Irish, accepting their coals.

You will soothe the cokeblack bile that’s Anglia’s and touch Armourican’s iron core.

Write me your essayest, my vocational scholars, but cursorily, dipping your nose in it, for Henrietta’s sake, on mortinatality or the life of jewries and the sludge of King’s at its height, running boulewards over the whole of it.

I’d write it all by mownself if I only had here of my jolly young watermen.

Bear in mind, by Michael, all the provincials’ bananas and elacock eggs making drawadust jubilee along Henry, Moore, Earl and Talbot Streets.

Luke at all the memmer manning he’s dung for the prey of birds, our priest-mayor-king-merchant, strewing the Castleknock Road and drawing manure upon it till the first glimpse of Wales and from Ballses Breach Harshoe up to Dumping’s Corner with the Mirist fathers’ brothers versus White Friars elevens out on a rogation stag party.

Compare them caponchin trowlers otiosely with the Bridges of Belches in Fairview, noreast Dublin’s favourite souwest wateringplatz, and ump as you lump it.

What do you mean by Jno Citizen and how do you think of Jas Pagan?

Compost liffe in Dufblin by Pierce Egan with the baugh in Baughkley of Fino Ralli.

Explain why there is such a number of orders of religion in Asea!

Why such an order number in preference to any other number?

Why any number in any order at all?

Now?

Where is the greenest island off the black coats of Spaign?

Overset into universal: I am perdrix and upon my pet ridge.

Oralmus!

Way, O way for the autointaxication of our town of the Fords in a huddle!

Hailfellow some wellmet boneshaker or, to ascertain the facts for herself, run up your showeryweather once and trust and take the Drumgondola tram and, wearing the midlimb and vestee endorsed by the hierarchy fitted with ecclastics, bending your steps, pick a trail and stand on, say, Aston’s, at, suppose, the hoyth of number eleven, let us say, Kane or Keogh’s, along quayth a copy of the Seeds and Weeds Act, when you have procured one for yourself, and I advise you strongly to take a good longing gaze into any nearby shopswindow you may select and in the course of about thirtytwo minutes’ time proceed to turn aroundabout on your hee-hills towards the previous causeway and I shall be very cruelly mistaken indeed if you will not be jushed astonushed to see how you will be meanwhile durn well topcoated with kakes of slush occasioned by the mush jam of the cross and blockwalls traffic in transit.

