For the loves of sinfintins!

Before the naked universe.

And the bailby pleasemarm rincing his eye!

One of these fine days, lewdyculler, you must redoform again.

Blessed shield Martin!

Softly so.

I am so exquisitely pleased about the love-leavest dress I have.

You will always call me Leafiest, won’t you, dowling?

Whordherfhull Ohldhbhoy!

And you won’t urbjunk to me parafume, oiled of kolooney, with a spot of marashy.

Sm!

It’s Allpine Smile from Yesther late Yhesters.

I’m in everywince nasturtls.

Even in Houlth’s nose.

Medeurscodeignus!

Astale of astoun.

Grand old marauder!

If I knew who you are!

When that hark from the air said it was Captain Finsen makes cumhulments and was mayit pressing for his suit I said are you there here’s nobody here only me.

But I near fell off the pile of samples.

As if your tinger winged ting to me hear.

Is that right what your brothermilk in Bray bes telling the district you were bragged up by Brostal because your parents would be always tumbling into his foulplace and losing her pentacosts after drinking their pledges?

Howsomendeavour, you done me fine!

The only man was ever known could eat the crushts of lobsters.

Our native night when you twicetook me for some Marienne Sherry and then your Jermyn cousin who signs hers with exes and the beardwig I found in your Clarksome bag.

Pharaops you’ll play you’re the king of Aeships.

You certainly make the most royal of noises.

I will tell you all sorts of makeup things, strangerous.

And show you to every simple storyplace we pass.

Cadmillersfolly, Bellevenue, Wellcrom, Quid Superabit, villities valleties.

Change the plates for the next course of murphies!

Spendlove’s still there and the Canon going strong and so is Claffey’s habits endurtaking and our parish pomp’s a great warrent.

But you’ll have to ask that same four that named them that is always snugging in your barsalooner, saying they’re the best relicts of Conal O’Daniel and writing Finglas Since the Flood.

That’ll be some kingly work in progress.

But it’s by this route he’ll come some morrow.

And I can signal you all flint and fern are rasstling as we go by.

And you’ll sing thumb a bit and then wise your selmon on it.

It is all so often and still the same to me.

Snf?

Only turf, wick dear!

Clane turf.

You’ve never fogodden batt on tarf, have you, at broin burroow, what?

Mch?

Why, them’s the muchrooms, come up during the night.

Look, agres of roofs in parshes.

Dom on dam, dim in dym.

And a capital part for olympics to ply at.

Steadyon, Cooloosus!

Mind your stride or you’ll knock.

While I’m dodging the dustbins.

Look what I found!

A lintil pea.

And look at here!

This cara weeseed.

Pretty mites, my sweetthings, was they poorloves abandoned by wholawidey world?

Neighboulotts for newtown.

The Eblanamagna you behazyheld loomening up out of the dumblynass.

But the still sama sitta.

I’ve lapped so long.

As you said.

It fair takes.

If I lose my breath for a minute or two don’t speak, remember!

Once it happened, so may it again.

Why I’m all these years within years in soffran, allbeleaved.

To hide away the tear, the parted.

It’s thinking of all.

The brave that gave their.

The fair that wore.

All them that’s gunne.

I’ll begin again in a jiffey.

The nik of a nad.

How glad you’ll be I waked you!

My!

How well you’ll feel!

For ever after.

First we turn by the vagurin here and then it’s gooder.

So side by side.

Turn agaze, weddingtown!

Laud, men of Londub!

I only hope whole the heavens sees us.

For I feel I could near to faint away.

Into the deeps.

Annamores leep.

Let me lean, just a lea, if you le, bowldstrong bigtider.

Allgearls is wea.

At times.

So.

While you’re adamant evar.

Wrhps, that wind as if out of norewere!

As on the night of the Apophanypes.

Jumpst shootst throbbst into me mouth like a bogue and arrohs!

Ludegude of the Lashlanns, how he whips me cheeks!

Sea, sea!

Here weir, reach, island, bridge.

Where you meet I.

The day.

Remember!

Why there that moment and us two only?

I was but teen, a tiler’s dot.

The swankysuits was boosting always, sure him, he was like to me fad.

But the swaggerest swell off Shackvulle Strutt.

And the fiercest freaky ever followed a pining child round the sluppery table with a forkful of fat.

But a king of whistlers.

Scieoula!

When he’d prop me atlas against his goose and light our two candles for our singers duohs on the sewingmachine.

I’m sure he squirted juice in his eyes to make them flash for flightening me.

Still and all he was awful fond to me.

Who’ll search for Find Me Colours now on the hillydroops of Vikloefells?

But I read in Tobecontinued’s tale that while blubles blows there’ll still be sealskers.

There’ll be others but none so for me.

Yed he never knew we seen us before.

Night after night.

So that I longed to go to.

And still with all.

One time you’d stand fornenst me, fairly laughing, in your bark and tan billows of branches for to fan me coolly.

And I’d lie as quiet as a moss.

And one time you’d rush upon me, darkly roaring, like a great black shadow, with a sheeny stare to perce me rawly.

And I’d frozen up and pray for thawe.

Three times in all.

I was the pet of everyone then.

A princeable girl.

And you were the pantymammy’s Vulking Corsergoth.

The invision of Indelond.

And, by Thorror, you looked it!

My lips went livid for from the joy of fear.

Like almost now.

How?

How you said how you’d give me the keys of me heart.

And we’d be married till delth to uspart.

And though dev do espart.

O mine!

Only, no, now it’s me who’s got to give.

As duv herself div.

Inn this linn.

And can it be it’s nnow fforvell?

Illas!

I wisht I had better glances to peer to you through this baylight’s growing.

But you’re changing, acoolsha, you’re changing from me, I can feel.

Or is it me is?

I’m getting mixed.

Brightening up and tightening down.

Yes, you’re changing, sonhusband, and you’re turning, I can feel you, for a daughterwife from the hills again.

Imlamaya.

And she is coming.

Swimming in me hindmoist.

Diveltaking on me tail.

Just a whisk brisk sly spry spink spank sprint of a thing theresomere, saultering.

Saltarella come to her own.

I pity your oldself I was used to.

Now a younger’s there.

Try not to part!

Be happy, dear ones!

May I be wrong!

For she’ll be sweet for you as I was sweet when I came down out of me mother.

My great blue bedroom, the air so quiet, scarce a cloud.

In peace and silence.

I could have stayed up there for always only.

It’s something fails us.

First we feel.

Then we fall.

And let her rain now if she likes.

Gently or strongly as she likes.

Anyway let her rain for my time is come.

I done me best when I was let.

Thinking always if I go all goes.

A hundred cares, a tithe of troubles and is there one who understands me?

One in a thousand of years of the nights?

All me life I have been lived among them but now they are becoming lothed to me.

And I am lothing their little warm tricks.

And lothing their mean cosy turns.

And all the greedy gushes out through their small souls.

And all the lazy leaks down over their brash bodies.

How small it’s all!

And me letting on to meself always.

And lilting on all the time.

I thought you were all glittering with the noblest of carriage.

You’re only a bumpkin.

I thought you the great in all things, in guilt and in glory.

You’re but a puny.

Home!

My people were not their sort out beyond there so far as I can.

For all the bold and bad and bleary they are blamed, the seahags.

No!

Nor for all our wild dances in all their wild din.

I can see meself among them, allaniuvia pulchrabelled.

How she was handsome, the wild Amazia, when she would seize to my other breast!

And what is she weird, haughty Niluna, that she will snatch from my ownest hair!

For ’tis they are the stormies.

Ho hang!

Hang ho!

And the clash of our cries till we spring to be free.

Auravoles, they says, never heed of your name!

But I’m loothing them that’s here and all I lothe.

Loonely in me loneness.

For all their faults.

I am passing out.

O bitter ending!

I’ll slip away before they’re up.

They’ll never see.

Nor know.

