It stands in Instopressible how Meynhir Mayour, our boorgomaister, thon staunch Thorsman (our Nancy’s fancy, our own Nanny’s Big Billy), his hod hoisted, in best bib and tucker, with Woolington bottes over buckram babbishkis and his clouded cane and necknoose aureal, surrounded of his full coorporation with fixed baronets and meng our pueblos, restrained by chain of hands, from pinchgut, hoghill, darklane, gibbetmeade, and beaux and laddes and bumbelly, shall receive Dom King at Broadstone Barrow meet a keys of goodmorrow on to his pompey cushion.

Me amble dooty to your grace’s majers!

Arise, Sir Pompkey Dompkey!

Ear!

Ear!

Weakear!

An allness eversides!

We but miss that horse elder yet cherchant of the wise graveleek in cabbuchin garden.

That his be foison, old Caubeenhauben!

’Twill be tropic of all days.

By the splendour of Sole!

Perfect weatherest prevailing.

Thisafter, Swift’s mightmace deposing, he shall address to His Serenemost by a speechreading from his miniated vellum, alfi byrni gamman dealter etcera zezera eacla treacla youghta kaptor lomdom noo, who meaningwhile, that illuminatured one, Papyroy of Pepinregn, my Sire, great, big King (his scaffold is there set up, as to edify, by Rex Ingram, pageantmaster), will be poking out with his canule into the arras of what brilliant bridgecloths and joking up with his tonguespitz to the crimosing balkonladies: here’s a help undo their modest stays with a fullbelow may the funnyfeelbelong.

Oddsbones, that may it!

Carilloners will ring their gluckspeels.

Rng rng!

Rng rng!

S. Presbytt-in-the-North, S. Mark Underloop, S. Lorenz-by-the-Toolechest, S. Nicholas Myre.

You shall hark to anune S. Gardener, S. George-le-Greek, S. Barclay Moitered, S. Phibb, Iona-in-the-Fields with Paull-the-Aposteln.

And audialterand: S. Jude-at-Gate, Bruno Friars, S. Weslen-on-the-Row, S. Molyneux Without, S. Mary Stillamarries with Bride-and-Audeons-behind-Wardborg.

How chimant in effect!

Alla tingaling pealabells!

So a many of churches one cannot hear one’s own prayers.

’Tis holyyear’s day!

Juin jully we may!

Agithetta and Tranquilla shall demure upclaused but Marlborough-the-Less, Greatchrist and Holy Protector shall have open virgilances.

Beata Basilica!

But will be not pontification?

Dock, dock, agame!

Primatially.

At wateredge.

Cantaberra and Neweryork may supprecate when, by vepers, for towned and travalled, his goldwhite swaystick aloft ylifted, umbrilla-parasoul, Monsigneur of Deublan shall impart to all.

Benedictus benedicat!

To board!

And mealsight!

Unjoint him this bittern, frust me this chicken, display yon crane, thigh her her pigeon, unlace and allay rabbit and pheasant!

Sing: Old Finncoole, he’s a mellow old saoul when he swills with his fuddlers free!

Poppop array!

For we’re all jollygame fellhellows which nobottle can deny!

Here be trouts culponed for ye and salmons chined and sturgeons tranched, sanced capons, lobsters barbed.

Call halton eatwords!

Mumm me moe mummers!

What, no Ithalians?

How, not one Moll Pamelas?

Accordingly!

Playactors by us ever have crash to their gate.

Mr Messop and Mr Borry will produce of themselves, as they’re two genitalmen of Veruno, senior Nowno and sanior Brolano (finaly!

finaly!

), all for love of a fair penitent that, ay she be broughton, rhoda’s a rosy she.

Their two big skins!

How they strave to gat her!

Such a boyplay!

Their bouchicaulture!

What tyronte power!

Buy our fays!

My name is novel and on the Granby in hills.

Bravose!

Thou traitor slave!

Mine name’s Apnorval and o’er the Grandbeyond Mountains.

Bravossimost!

The royal musick their show shall shut with songslide to nature’s solemn silence.

Deep Dalchi Dolando!

Might gentle harp addurge!

It will give piketurns on the Tummliplads and forain dances and crosshurdles and dollmanovers and viceuvious pyrolyphies, a snow of dawnflakes, at darkfall for Grace’s Mamnesty and our fancy ladies, all assombred.

Some wholetime in the hot town tonight!

You do not have heard?

It stays in book of that which is.

I have heard anyone tell it jesterday (master currier with brassard, was’t?)

how one should come on morrow here but it is never here that one today.

Well, but remind tu think you where yestoday Ys Morganas war and that it is always tomorrow in toth’s tother’s place.

Amen.

True!

True!

Vouchsafe me more soundpicture!

It gives furiously to think.

Is rich Mr Pornter, a squire, not always in his such strong health?

I thank you for the best, he is in taken deal exceedingly herculaneous.

One sees how he is lot stroutlier than of formerly.

One would say him to hold whole a litteringture of kidlings under his aproham.

He!

Has handsome Sir Pournter always been so long married?

O yes, Lord Pournterfamilias has been marryingman ever since so long time in Hurtleforth, where he appeers as our oily the active, and, yes indeed, he has his mic son and his two fine mac sons and a superfine mick want they mack metween them.

She, she, she!

But on what do you again leer?

I am not leering, I pink your pardons!

I am highly she she sherious.

Do you not must want to go somewhere on the present?

Yes, O pity!

At earliest moment!

That prickly heat feeling!

Forthink not me spill it’s at always so guey.

Here we shall do a far walk (O pity!)

anygo khaibits till the number one of Sairey’s place.

Is, is.

I want you to admire her sceneries illustrationing our national first rout, one ought ought one.

We shall too downlook on that ford where Sylvanus Sanctus washed but hurdley those tips of his anointeds.

Do not show ever retrorsehim, crookodeyled, till that you become quite crimstone in the face!

Beware!

Guardafew!

It is Stealer of the Heart!

I am anxious in regard you should overthrown your sillarsalt.

I will dui sui, tefnute!

These brilling waveleaplights!

Please say me how sing you them.

Seekhem seckhem!

They arise from a clear springwell in the near of our park which makes the daft to hear all blend.

This place of endearment!

How it is clear!

And how they cast their spells upon, the fronds that thereup float, the bookstaff branchings!

The druggeted stems, the leaves incut on trees!

Do you can their tantrist spellings?

I can lese, skillmistress aiding.

Elm, bay, this way, cull dare, take a message, tawny runes ilex sallow, meet me at the pine.

Yes, they shall have brought us to the watertrysting by hedges of maiden fern, then here in another place is their chapelofeases, sold for song, of which you have thought my praise too much my price.

O ma ma!

Yes, sad one of Ziod?

Sell me, my soul dear!

Ah, my sorrowful, his cloister dreeping of his monkshood, how it is triste to death, all his dark ivytod!

Where cold in dearth.

Yet see, my blanching kissabelle, in the under close she is all so gay, her kirtles green, her curtsies white, her peony pears, her nistlingsloe!

O, pipette, I must also quicklingly to tryst myself softly into this little easechapel!

I would rather than Ireland!

But, I pray, make so!

Do your easiness!

O, ppeace, this is heaven!

O, Prince of Pouringtoher, whatever shall I pppease to do?

Why do you so lifesighs, my precious, as I hear from you, with limmenings lemantitions, after that swollen one?

I am not sighing, I assure, but only I am soso sorry about all in my saaras-place.

Listen, listen!

I am doing it.

Hear more to those voices!

Always I am hearing them.

Hoarsehem coughs enough.

Annshee lispes privily.

— He is quieter now.

— Legalentitled.

Accesstopartnzz.

Notwildebeestsch.

Byrightofcaptz.

Twainbeoneflesh.

Haveandholdpp.

— S!

Let us go.

Make a noise.

Slee … — Obstructionwayszz.

Beautofusion.

Claimtopossessk.

— Qui … The li … — Huesofrichunfoldingmorn.

Wakenupriseandprove.

Provideforsacrifice.

— Wait!

Hist!

Let us list!

For our netherworld’s bosomfoes are working tooth and nail overtime: in earthveins, toadcavities, cheeseganglions, saltklosters, underfed: nagging firenibblers knocking afterman up out of his hinterclutch.

Tomb be their tools!

When the youngdammers will be soon heartpocking on their betters’ doornoggers: and the youngfries will be backfrisking diamondcuts over their lyingin underlayers, spick and spat trowelling a gravetrench for their fourinhand forebears.

Vote for your club!

— Wait!

— What?

— Her door!

— Ope?

— See!

— What?

— Careful!

— Who?

Cant ear!

Her dorters ofe?

Whofe?

Her eskmeno daughters hope?

Whope?

Ellme, elmme, elskmestoon!

Soon!

Live well!

Inûvdluaritzas!

Tone!

Let us consider.

The procurator Interrogarius Mealterum persends us this proposer.

Honuphrius is a concupiscent exservicemajor who makes dishonest propositions to all.

He is considered to have committed, invoking droit d’oreiller, simple infidelities with Felicia, a virgin, and to be practising for unnatural coits with Eugenius and Jeremias, two or three philadelphians.

Honuphrius, Felicia, Eugenius and Jeremias are consanguineous to the lowest degree.

Anita, the wife of Honuphrius, has been told by her tirewoman, Fortissa, that Honuphrius has blasphemously confessed under voluntary chastisement that he has instructed his slave Mauritius, a widower, to facilitate their neighbour Magravius, a commercial emulous of Honuphrius, to solicit the chastity of Anita.

Anita is informed by some illegitimate children of Fortissa with Mauritius (the supposition is Ware’s) that Gillia, the schismatical wife of Magravius, is visited clandestinely by Barnabas, the advocate of Honuphrius, an immoral person who has been corrupted by Jeremias.

Gillia (a cooler blend, D’Alton insists), ex equo with Poppea, Arancita, Clara, Marinuzza, Indra and Iodina, has been tenderly debauched (in Halliday’s view) by Honuphrius, and Magravius knows from spies that Anita has formerly committed double sacrilege with Michael, vulgo Cerularius, a perpetual curate who wishes to seduce Eugenius.

Magravius threatens to have Anita molested by Sulla, an orthodox savage (and leader of a band of twelve mercenaries, the Sullivani) who desires to procure Felicia for Gregorius, Leo, Vitellius and Macdugalius, four excavators, if she will not yield to him and also deceive Honuphrius by rendering conjugal duty when demanded.

Anita, who claims to have discovered incestuous temptations from Jeremias and Eugenius, would yield to the lewdness of Honuphrius to appease the savagery of Sulla and the mercernariness of the twelve Sullivani and (as Gilbert at first suggested) to save the virginity of Felicia for Magravius, when converted by Michael after the death of Gillia, but she fears that by allowing his marital rights she may cause reprehensible conduct between Eugenius and Jeremias.

Michael, who has formerly debauched Anita, dispenses her from yielding to Honuphrius who pretends publicly to possess his conjunct in thirtynine several manners (turpiter!

affirm ex cathedris Gerontes Cambronses) for carnal hygiene whenever he has rendered himself impotent to consummate by subdolence.

Anita is disturbed, but Michael comminates that he will reserve her case tomorrow for the ordinary Guglielmus even if she should practise a pious fraud during affrication which, from experience, she knows (according to Wadding) to be leading to nullity.

Fortissa, however, is encouraged by Gregorius, Leo, Vitellius and Magdugalius, reunitedly, to warn Anita by describing the strong chastisements of Honuphrius and the depravities (turpissimas!)

of Canicula, the deceased wife of Mauritius, with Sulla, the simoniac, who is abnegand and repents.

Has he hegemony and shall she submit?

Translake a lax, you breed a bradaun.

In the goods of Cape and Chattertone, deceased.

This, layreaders and gentilemen, is perhaps the commonest of all cases arising out of umbrella history in connection with the wood industries in our courts of litigation.

D’Oyly Owens holds (though Finn Magnusson of himself holds also) that so long as there is a joint deposit account in the two names a mutual obligation is posited.

Owens cites Brerfuchs and Warren, a foreign firm, since disseized, registered as Tangos, Limited, for the sale of certain proprietary articles.

The action, which was at the instance of the trustee of the Heathen Church Emergency fund, suing by its trustee, a resigned civil servant, for the payment of tithes due, was heard by Judge Doyle and also by a common jury.

No question arose as to the debt for which vouchers spoke volumes.

The defence alleged that payment had been made effective.

The fund trustee, one Jucundus Fecundus Xero Pecundus Coppercheap, counterclaimed that payment was invalid, having been tendered to creditor under cover of a crossed cheque, signed in the ordinary course, in the name of Wieldhelm, hurls cross, voucher copy provided, and drawn by the senior partner only by whom the lodgment of the species had been effected but in their joint names.

