
Lissom!

I am doing it.

Hark, the corne entreats!

And the larpnotes prittle.

It was of a night, late, lang time agone, in an auldstane eld, when Adam was delvin and his madameen spinning watersilts, when mulk mounty -notty man was everybully and the first leal ribberrobber that ever had her ainway everybuddy else to his lovesaking eyes and when everybilly lived alove with everybiddy else and Jarl van Hoother had his burnt head high up in his lamphouse, laying cold hands on himself.

And his two little jiminies, cousins of ours, Tristopher and Hilary, were kickaheeling their dummy on the oilcloth flure of his homerigh, castle and earthenhouse.

And, be dermot, who come to the keep of his inn only the niece-of-his-in-law, the prankquean.

And the prankquean pulled a rosy one and made her wit forenenst the dour.

And she lit up and fireland was ablaze.

And spoke she to the dour in her petty perusienne: Mark the Wans, why do I am alook alike a poss of porterpease?

And that was how the skirtmisshes began.

But the dour handworded her grace in dootch nossow: Shut!

So her grace o’malice kidsnapped up the jiminy Tristopher and into the shandy westerness she rain, rain, rain.

And Jarl van Hoother warlessed after her with soft doves-gall: Stop deef stop come back to my earin stop.

But she swaradid to him: Unlikelihud.

And there was a brannewwail that same sabbaoth night of falling angles somewhere in Erio.

And the prankquean went for her forty years’ walk in Tourlemonde and she washed the blessings of the lovespots off the jiminy with soap sulliver suddles and she had her four owlers masters for to tauch him his tickles and she convorted him to the onesure all-good and he became a luderman.

So then she started to rain and to rain and, be redtom, she was back again at Jarl van Hoother’s in a brace of samers and the jiminy with her in her pinafrond, lace at night, at another time.

And where did she come but to the bar of his bristolry.

And Jarl van Hoother had his baretholobruised heels drowned in his cellarmalt, shaking warm hands with himself, and the jiminy Hilary and the dummy in their first infancy were below on the tearsheet, wringing and coughing, like brodar and histher.

And the prankquean nipped a paly one and lit up again and redcocks flew flackering from the hillcombs.

And she made her witter before the wicked, saying: Mark the Twy, why do I am alook alike two poss of porterpease?

And: Shut!

says the wicked, handwording her madesty.

So her madesty a’forethought set down a jiminy and took up a jiminy and all the lilipath ways to Woeman’s Land she rain, rain, rain.

And Jarl van Hoother bleethered atter her with a loud finegale: Stop domb stop come back with my earring stop.

But the prankquean swaradid: Am liking it.

And there was a wild old grannewwail that altarsame laurency night of stars -hootings somewhere in Erio.

And the prankquean went for her forty years’ walk in Turnlemeem and she punched the curses of cromcruwell with the nail of a top into the jiminy and she had her four larksical monitrix to tauch him his tears and she provorted him to the onecertain allsecure and he became a tristian.

So then she started raining, raining, and in a pair of changers, be dom ter, she was back again at Jarl van Hoother’s and the Larryhill with her under her abromette.

And why would she halt at all if not by the ward of his mansionhome of another nice lace for the third charm?

And Jarl van Hoother had his hurricane hips up to his pantrybox, ruminating in his holdfour stomachs (Dare!

O dare!

), and the jiminy Toughertrees and the dummy were belove on the watercloth, kissing and spitting, and roguing and poghuing, like knavepaltry and naivebride and in their second infancy.

And the prankquean picked a blank and lit out and the valleys lay twinkling.

And she made her wittest in front of the arkway of trihump, asking: Mark the Tris, why do I am alook alike three poss of porterpease?

But that was how the skirtmisshes endupped.

For, like the campbells acoming with a forklance of lightning, Jarl van Hoother Boanerges himself, the old terror of the dames, came hip hop handihap out through the pikeopened arkway of his three shuttoned castles in his broad-ginger hat and his civic chollar and his allabuff hemmed and his bullbraggin soxangloves and his ladbroke breeks and his cattegut bandolair and his furframed panuncular cumbottes like a rudd yellan gruebleen orangeman in his violet indigonation, to the whole longth of the strongth of his bowman’s bill.

And he clopped his rude hand to his eacy hitch and he ordurd and his thick spch spck for her to shut up shop, dappy.

And the duppy shot the shutter clup.

(Perkodhuskurunbarggruauyagokgorlayorgromgremmitghundhurthrumathunaradidillifaititillibumullunukkunun!)

And they all drank free.

For one man in his armour was a fat match always for any girls under shurts.

And that was the first peace of illiterative porthery in all the flamend floody flatuous world.

How kirssy the tiler made a sweet unclose to the Narwhealian captol.

Saw fore shalt thou sea.

Betoun ye and be.

The prankquean was to hold her dummyship and the jiminies was to keep the peacewave and van Hoother was to git the wind up.

Thus the hearsomeness of the burger felicitates the whole of the polis.

O foenix culprit!

Ex nickylow malo comes mickelmassed bonum.

Hill, rill, ones in company, billeted, less be proud of.

Breast high and bestride!

Only for that these will not breethe upon Norrönesen or Irenean the secrest of their soorcelossness.

Quarry silex, Homfrie Noanswa?

Undy gentian festyknees, Livia Noanswa?

Wolkencap is on him, frowned; audiurient, he would evesdrip, were it mouse at hand, were it dinn of bottles in the far ear.

Murk, his vales are darkling.

With lipth she lithpeth to him all to time of thuch on thuch and thow on thow.

She he she ho she ha to la.

Hairfluke, if he could bad twig her!

Impalpabunt, he abhears.

The soundwaves are his buffeteers.

They trompe him with their trompes: the wave of roary and the wave of hooshed and the wave of bawhawawrd and the wave of neverheedthemhorseluggarsandlistletomine.

Landloughed by his neaghboormistress and perpetrified in his offsprung, sabes and suckers, the moaning pipers could tell him to his faceback, the louthly one whose loab we are devorers of, how butt for his hold halibutt, or her to her pudorpuff, the lipalip one whose libe we drink at, how biff for her tiddywink of a windfall, our breed and washer givers, there would not be a holey spier on the town nor a vestal flouting in the dock, nay, to make plein avowels, nor a yew nor an eye to play cashcash in Novo Nilbud by swamplight nor a’toole o’tall o’tall and noddy hint to the convaynience.

He dug in and dug out by the skill of his tilth for himself and all belonging to him and he sweated his crew beneath his auspice for the living and he urned his dread, that dragon volant, and he made louse for us and delivered us to boll weevils amain, Unfru-chikda-uru-wukru, that mighty liberator, and begad he did, our ancestor most worshipful, till he thought of a better one in his windower’s house with that blushmantle upon him from earsend to earsend.

And would again could whispring grassies wake him.

And may again when the fiery bird disembers.

And will again if so be sooth by elder to his youngers shall be said.

Have you whines for my wedding, did you bring bride and bedding, will you whoop for my deading is a?

Wake!

Usqueadbaugham!

Anam muck an dhoul!

Did ye drink me doornail?

Now, be aisy, good Mr Finnimore, sir.

And take your laysure like a god on pension and don’t be walking abroad.

Sure, you’d only lose yourself in Healiopolis now the way your roads in Kapelavaster are that winding there after the calvary, the North Umbrian and the Fivs Barrow and Waddlings Raid and the Bower Moore, and wet your feet maybe with the foggy dew’s abroad.

Meeting some sick old bankrupt or the Cottericks’ donkey with his shoe hanging, clankatachankata, or a slut snoring with an impure infant on a bench.

’Twould turn you against life, so ’twould.

And the weather’s that mean too!

To part from Devlin is hard, as Nugent knew, to leave the clean tanglesome one lushier than its neighbour enfranchisable fields.

But let your ghost have no grievance.

You’re better off, sir, where you are, primesigned in the full of your dress, bloodeagle waistcoat and all, remembering your shapes and sizes, on the pillow of your babycurls, under your sycamore by the keld water where the Tory’s clay will scare the varmints, and have all you want, pouch, gloves, flask, bricket, kerchief, ring and amberulla, the whole treasure of the pyre, in the land of souls with Homin and Broin Baroke and pole ole Lonan and Nobucketnozzler and the Guinnghis Khan.

And we’ll be coming here, the ombre players, to rake your gravel and bringing you presents, won’t we, fenians?

And it isn’t our spittle we’ll stint you of, is it, druids?

Not shabbty little imagettes, pennydirts and dodgemyeyes you buy in the soottee stores.

But offerings of the field.

Mieliodories that Doctor Faherty, the madison man, taught to gooden you.

Poppypap’s a passport out.

And honey is the holiest thing ever was, hive, comb and earwax, the food for glory (mind you keep the pot or your nectar cup may yield too light!

), and some goat’s milk, sir, like the maid used to bring you.

Your fame is spreading like Basilico’s ointment since the Fintan Lalors piped you overborder and there’s whole households beyond the Bothnians and they calling names after you.

The menhere’s always talking of you, sitting around on the pig’s cheeks under the sacred rooftree, over the bowls of memory where every hollow holds a hallow, with a pledge till the drengs, in the Salmon House.

And admiring to our supershillelagh where the palmsweat on high is the mark of your manument.

All the toethpicks ever Eirenesians chewed on are chips chepped from that battery block.

If you were bowed and soild and letdown itself from the oner of the load it was that paddyplanters might pack up plenty, and when you were undone in every point fore the laps of goddesses you showed our labourlasses how to free was easy.

The game old Gunne, they do be saying (skull!

), that was a planter for you, a spicer of them all!

Begog but he was, the G.O.G!

He’s duddandgunne now and we’re apter finding the sores of his sedeq, but peace to his great limbs, the buddhoch, with the last league long rest of him, while the million-candled eye of Tuskar sweeps the Moylean Main!

There was never a warlord in Great Erinnes and Brettland, no, nor in all Pike County, like you, they say.

No, nor a king nor an ardking, bung king, sung king or hung king.

You could fell an elmtree twelve urchins couldn’t ring round and hoist high the stone that Liam failed.

Who but a Maccullaghmore the reise of our fortunes and the faunayman at the funeral to compass our cause?

If you was hogglebully itself and most fiefty like you was taken waters, still what all?

Where was your like to lay the cable or who was the batter could better Your Grace?

Mick MacMagnus MacCawley can take you off to the pure perfection and Leatherbags Reynolds tries your shuffle and cut.

But as Hopkins and Hopkins puts it, you were the rale eggynaggy and a kis to tilly up.

We calls him the journeyall Buggaloffs since he went Jerusalemfaring in Arssia Manor.

You had a gamier cock than Pete, Jake or Martin and your archgoose of geese stubbled for All Angels’ Day.

So may the priest of seven worms and scalding tayboil, Papa Vestray, come never anear you as your hair grows wheater beside the Liffey that’s in Heaven!

Hep, hep, hurrah there!

Hero!

Seven times thereto we salute you!

The whole bag of kits, falconplumes and jackboots incloted, is where you flung them that time.

Your heart is in the system of the Shewolf and your crested head is in the tropic of Copricapron.

Your feet are in the cloister of Virgo.

Your olala is in the region of sahuls.

And that’s ashore as you were born.

Your shuck tick’s swell.

And that there texas is tow linen.

The loamsome roam to Laffayette is ended.

Drop in your tracks, babe!

Be not unrested!

The headboddylwatcher of the chempel of Isid, Totumcalmum, saith: I know thee, metherjar, I know thee, salvation boat.

For we have performed upon thee, thou abramanation, who comest ever without being invoked, whose coming is unknown, all the things which the company of the precentors and of the grammarians of Christpatrick’s ordered concerning thee in the matter of the work of thy tombing.

Howe of the shipmen, steep wall!

Everything’s going on the same, or so it appeals to all of us, in the old holmsted here.

As popular as when Belly the First was keng and his members met in the Diet of Man.

Coughings all over the sanctuary, bad scrant to me aunt Florenza.

The horn for breakfast, one o’gong for lunch and dinnerchime, the same shop slop in the window, Jacob’s lettercrackers and Dr Tipple’s ViCocoa and the Eswaurds’ desippated soup beside Mother Seagull’s Syrup.

Coal’s short but we’ve plenty of bog in the yard.

Meat took a drop when Reilly-Parsons failed.

But barley’s up again, begrained to it!

The lads is attending school nessons regular, sir.

Spelling beesknees with hathatansy and turning out tables by mudapplication.

All for the books and never pegging smashers after Tom Bowe-Glassarse or Timmy the Tosser.

’Tisraely the truth!

Now isn’t it, roman pathoriks?

You were the doublejoynted janitor the morning they were delivered and you’ll be a grandfer yet entirely when the ritehand seizes what the lovearm knows.

Kevin’s just a doat with his cherub cheek and his little lamp and schoolbelt and bag of knicks, chalking oghres on walls and playing postman’s knock round the diggings, and if the seep were milk you could lieve his olde by his ide.

But, laus sake, the devil does be in that knirps of a Jerry sometimes, the tarandtan plaidboy, making encostive inkum out of the last of his lavings and writing a blue streak over his bourseday shirt.

Hetty Jane’s a Child of Mary.

She’ll be coming (for they’re sure to choose her) in her white of gold with a tourch of ivy to rekindle the flame on Felix Day.

And Essie Shanahan has let down her skirts.

You remember Essie in Our Luna’s Convent?

They called her Holly Merry her lips were so ruddy berry and Pia de Purebelle when the redminers’ riots was on about her.

Were I a clerk designate to the Williamswoods menufactors I’d poster those pouters on every jamb in the town.

She’s making her rep at Lanner’s twicenightly.

With the tabarine tamtammers of the whirligigmagees.

Beats that cachucha flat.

’Twould dilate your heart to go.

Aisy now, you decent man, with your knees and lie quiet and repose your honour’s lordship!

Hold him there, Ezekiel Irons, and may God strengthen you!

It’s our warm spirits, boys, he’s spooring.

Dimitrius O’Flagonan, cork that cure for the Clancartys!

You swamped enough since Portobello to float the Pomeroy.

Fetch neahere, Pat Koy!

And fetch nouyou, Pam Yates!

Be nayther angst of Wramawitch!

Here’s lumbos.

Where misties swaddlum, where misches lodge none, where mystries pour kind on, O sleepy!

So be yet!

I’ve an eye on queer Behan and old Kate and the butter, trust me.

She’ll do no jugglywuggly with her war souvenir postcards to help to build me murial.

Tippers, I’ll trip your traps!

Assure a sure there!

And we put on your clock again, sir, for you.

Did or didn’t we, sharestutterers?

So you won’t be up a stump entirely.

Nor shed your remnants.

The sternwheel’s crawling strong.

I seen your missus in the hall.

Like queenoveire.

Arrah, it’s herself that’s fine, sure, don’t be talking!

Shirksends?

You storyan Harry chap longa me Harry chap storyan grass woman plelthy good trout.

Shakes-hands.

Dibble a hayfork’s wrong with her only her lex’s salig.

Bald Tib does be yawning and smirking cats’ hours on the Pollockses’ woolly round tabouret cushion watching her sewing a dream together, the tailor’s daughter, stitch to her last.

Or, while waiting for winter to fire the enchantment, decoying more nesters to fall down the flue.

It’s an allavalonche that blows nopussy food.

If you only were there to explain the meaning, best of men, and talk to her nice of guldenselver.

The lips would moisten once again.

As when you drove with her to Findrinny Fair.

What with reins here and ribbons there all your hands were employed so she never knew was she on land or at sea or swooped through the blue like Airwinger’s bride.

She was flirt-some then and she’s fluttersome yet.

She can second a song and adores a scandal when the last post’s gone by.

Fond of a concertina and pairs passing when she’s had her forty winks for supper after kanekannan and abbely dimpling and is in her merlin chair assotted, reading her Evening World.

To see is it smarts, full lengths or swaggers.

News, news, all the news.

Death, a leopard, kills fellah in Fez.

Angry scenes at Stormount.

Stilla Star with her lucky in goingaways.

Opportunity fair with the China floods and we hear these rosy rumours.

Ding Tams he noise about all same Harry chap.

She’s seeking her way, a chickle a chuckle, in and out of their serial story, Les Loves of Selskar et Pervenche, freely adopted to The Novvergin’s Viv.

There’ll be bluebells blowing in salty sepulchres the night she signs her final tear.

Zee End.

But that’s a world of ways away.
