And forthemore let legend go lore of it.

That mortar scene so cwympty dwympty what a dustydust it razed arboriginally but, luck’s leap to the lad at the top of the ladder, so sartor’s risorted why the sinner the badder!

Ho ho ho hoch!

La la la lach!

Hillary rillary gibbous grist to our millery!

A pushpull, qq: quiescence, pp: with extravent intervulve coupling.

The savest lauf in the world.

Paradoxmutose caring, but here in a present booth of Ballaclay, Barthalamou, where their dutchuncler mynhosts and serves them dram well right for a boors’ interior (homereek van hohmryk) that salve that selver is to screen its auntey and has ringround as worldwise eve her sins (pip, pip, pip) willpip futurepip feature apip footloose pastcast with spareshins and flash subtittles of noirse-made-earsy from a nephew mind the narrator but give the devil his so long as those sohns of a blitzh call the tuone tuone and thonder alout makes the thurd.

Let there be.

Due.

— That’s all murtagh purtagh but whad ababs his dopter?

sissed they who were onetime ungkerls themselves (when the youthel of his yorn shook the bouchal in his bed), twilled alongside, in wiping the rice assatiated with their wetting.

The lappel of his size?

His ros in sola velnere and he sicckumed of homnis terrars.

She wends to scoulas in her slalpers.

There were no peanats in her famalgia so no wumble she tumbled for his famas roalls davors.

Don’t him forget!

A butcheler artsed out of Cullege Trainity.

Diddled he daddle a drop of the cradler on delight mebold laddy was stetched?

Knit wear?

And they addled (ere the cry of their tongues would be uptied dead), Shufflebotham asidled, plus his ducks fore his drills, an inlay of a liddle more lining maught be licensed all at ones, be these same tokens, forgiving a brass rap, sneither a whole length nor a short shift so full as all were concerned.

Burniface, shiply efter, shoply after, at an angle of lag, let flow, brabble brabble and brabble, and so hostily, heavyside breathing, came up with them and, check me joule, shat the three tailors, butting back to Moyle herring, bump as beam and buttend, roller and reiter, after the diluv’s own deluge, the seasant samped as skibber breezed in, tripping, dripping, threw the sheets in the wind, the tights of his trunks at tickle to tackle and his rubmelucky truss rehorsing the pouffed skirts of his overhaul.

He’d left his stickup in his hand to show them none ill feeling, Whatthough for all appentices it had a mushroom on it.

While he faced them front to back, Then paraseuls round, quite taken atack, Sclaiming, Howe Cools Eavybrolly!

— Good marrams, sagd he, freshwatties and boasterdes all, as he put into bierhiven, nogeysokey first, cabootle segund, jilling to windwards, as he made straks for that oerasound the snarsty weg for Publin, so was his horenpipe lug in the lee off their mouths organs, with his tilt too taut for his tammy all a slaunter and his wigger on a wagger with its tag tucked.

Up.

With a good eastering and a good westering.

And he asked from him how the hitch did do this my fand Sulkers that mone met the kidballacks which he suttonly remembered also where the hatch was he endnew strandweys he’s that fond Sutchenson, a penincular fraimd of mind, fordeed he was langseling to talka holt of hems.

Clown toff, tye hug fliorten.

Cablen: Clifftop.

Shelvling tobay oppelong tomeadow.

Ware cobbles.

Posh.

Skibbereen has common inn, by pounautique, with pokeway paw and sadder raven evermore, telled shinshanks lauwering frankish for his kicker who, through the medium of gallic: — Pukkelsen, tilltold.

That with some our prowed invisors how their ulstravoliance led them infroraids, striking down and landing alow against our aerian insulation resistance, two boards that beached ast one, widness thane and tysk and hanry.

Prepatrickularly all, they summed.

Kish met.

Bound to.

And for landlord, noting, nodding, a coast to moor was cause to mear.

Besides proof plenty, over proof.

While they either took a heft.

Or the other swore his eric.

Heaved two, spluiced the menbrace.

Heirs at you, Brewinbaroon!

Weth a whistle for methanks.

— Good marrams and good mirrymills, sayd good mothers gossip, bobbing his bowing both ways with the bents and skerries, when they were all in the old walled of Kinkincaraborg (and that they did overlive the hot air of Montybunkum upon the coal blasts of Mitropolitos let there meeds be the hourihorn), hiberniating after seven oak ages, fearsome where they were he had gone dump in the doomering this tide where the peixies would pickle him down to the button of his seat and his sess old soss Erinly into the boelgein with the help of Divy and Jorum’s locquor and shut the door after him to make a rarely fine Ran’s cattle of fish.

Morya Mortimor!

Allapalloverus!

Howoft had the ballshee tried!

And they laying low for his homegang in that eeriebleak mead, with fireball feast and turkeys tumult and paupers patch to provide his bum end.

The foe things your niggerhead needs to be fitten for the Big Water.

He made the sign of the hammer.

Cod’s drought, he sayd, after a few daze, thinking of all those bliakings, how leif pauses!

Here you are back on your hawkins from Blasil the Brast to our povotogesus portocall, the furt on the turn of the hurdies, slave to trade, vassal of spices and a dragon-the-market, and be turbot, lurch a stripe, as were you soused methought out of the mackerel.

Eldsfells!

sayd he.

A kumpavin on iceslant!

Here’s open handlegs for one old faulker from the hame folk here in You’s booth!

So sell me gundy, sagd the now waging cappon with a warry posthumour’s expletion, shoots ogos shootsle him or where’s that slob?

A bit bite of keesens, he sagd, til Dennis, for this jantar (and let the dobblins roast perus!)

or a stinger, he sagd, t. d., on a dorough-bread kennedys for Patriki San saki on svo fro or my old relogion’s out of tiempor and when I’m soured to the tipple you can sink me lead, he sagd, and, if I get can, sagd he, a pusspull of tamtartarum.

Thirst because homing hand give.

Allkey dalkey, sayd the shop’s housebound, for he was as deep as the north star (and could tolk sealer’s solder into tankar’s tolder), as might have sayd, every man to his beast and a treat for the trading scow, my cater million falls to you and crop feed a stall, if thoult pay mine’s the winnowing sheet!

Afram!

And he got and gave the ekspedient for Hombreyhambrey wilcomer what’s the good word.

He made the sign on the feaster.

Cloth be laid!

And a disk of osturs for the swanker!

Allahballah!

He was the carelessest man I ever see but he sure had the most sand.

One fishball with fixings!

For a dan of a ven of a fin of a son of a gun of a gombolier.

Ekspedient, sayd he, sonnur mine, Shackleton Sulten!

Opvarts and at ham, or this ogry Osler will oxmaul us all, sayd he, like one familiar to the house, while Waldemar was heeling it and Maldemer was toeing it, soe syg he was walking from the bowl at his food and the meer crank he was waiting for the tow of his turn.

Till they plied him behaste on the fare.

Saywehrn!

— Nohow did he kersse or hoot alike the suit and solderskins?

minded first breachesmaker with considerable way on and — Humpsea dumpsea, the munchantman, secondsnipped cutter the curter.

— A ninth for a ninth.

Take my worth from it.

And no mistaenk, they thricetold the taler, and they knew the whyed for too.

The because of his sosuch.

Uglymand fit himshemp but throats fill us all!

And three’s here’s for repeat of the unium!

— Place the scaurs wore on your groot big bailey bill, he apullajibed, the O’Colonel Power, latterly distented from the O’Conner Dan, so promonitory himself that he was obliffious of the headth of hosth that rosed before him from Sheeroskouro, under its zembliance of mardal mansk, like a dun darting dullemitter, with his moultain haares stuck in plostures upon it (do you kend yon peak with its coast so green?

), still trystfully acape for her his gragh knew well in precious memory and that proud grace to her, in gait a movely water, of smile a coolsome cup, with that rarefied air of a Montmalency and her quick little breaths and her climbing colour.

Take thee live will save thee wive?

I’ll think uplon, lilady.

Should anerous enthroproise call homovirtue, duinnafear!

The ghem’s to the ghoom be she nere zo zma.

Obsit nemon!

Floodlift, her ancient of rights regaining, so yester yidd, even remembrance.

And greater grown than in the trifle of her days, a mouse, a mere tittle, trots off with the whole panoromacron picture.

Her youngfree yoke stilling his wandercursus, jilt the spin of a curl and jolt the broadth of a buoy.

The Annexandreian captive conquest.

Ethna Prettyplume, Hooghly Spaight.

Him her first lap, her his fast pal, for ditcher for plower, till deltas twoport.

While this glowworld’s lump is gloaming off and han in hende will grow.

Through simpling years where the lowcasts have aten of amilikan honey and datish fruits and a bannock of barley on Tham the Thatcher’s palm.

O wanderness be wondernest and now!

Listeneath to me, veils of Mina!

He would withsay, nepertheloss, that is too me mean.

I oldways did me walsh and preechup ere we set to sope and fash.

Now eats the vintner over these contents oft with his sad slow munch for backonham.

Yet never shet is the brood of aurowoch, not for legions of donours of Gamuels.

I have performed the law in truth for the lord of the law, Taif Alif.

I have held out my hand for the holder of my heart in Annapolis, my youthrib city.

Be ye then my protectors unto Mussabotomia before the guards of the city.

Theirs theres is a gentlemeants agreement.

Womensch plodge.

To slope through heather till the foot.

Join Andersoon and Co.

If the flowers of speech valed the springs of me rising the hiker I hilltapped the murk I mist my blezzard way.

Not a knocker on his head nor a nicknumber on the manyoumeant.

With that coldtbrundt natteldster wefting stinks from Alpyssinia, wooving nihilnulls from Memoland and wolving the ulvertones of the voice.

But his spectrem only mergeant crested from the irised sea in plight, calvitousness, loss, nngnr, gliddinyss, unwill and snorth.

It might have been what you call your change of my life but here’s the chance of a night for my lifting.

Hillyhollow, valleylow!

With the sounds and the scents in the morning.

— I shot be shoddied, throttle me, fine me cowheel for ever, usquebauched the ersewild aleconner, for bringing briars to Benbracken and ringing rinbus round Demetrius for, as you wrinkle wryghtly, bully bluedomer, it’s a suirsite’s stircus haunting hesteries round old volcanoes.

We gin too gnir and thus plinary indulgence makes collemullas of us all.

But time is for talerman tasting his tap.

Tiptoptap, Mister Maut.

He made one summery (cholk and murble in lonestime) of his the three swallows like he was muzzling Moselems and torched up as the faery pangeant fluwed down the hisophenguts, a slake for the quicklining, to the tickle of his tube and the twobble of his fable, O, fibbing once upon a spray what a queer and queasy spree it was.

Plumped.

Which both did.

Prompt.

Eh, chrystal holder?

Save Ampsterdampster that had rheumaniscences in his netherlumbs.

— By the drope in his groin, Ali Slupa, thinks the cappon, plumbing his liners, we were heretofore.

— And be the coop of his gobbos, Reacher the Thaurd, thinks your girth fatter, apopo of his buckseaseilers, but where’s Horace’s courtin troopsers?

— I put hem behind the oasthouse, sagd Pukkelsen, tuning wound on the teller, appeased to the cue, that double dyode dealered, and he’s wallowing awash swill of the Tarra water.

And it marinned down his gargantast trompsathletic like the marousers of the gulpstroom.

The kersse of Wolafs on him, shitateyar, he sagd in the fornicular, and, at weare or not at weare, I’m sigen no stretcher, for I carsed his muhersson goat in trotthers with them newbucklenoosers behigh in the fire behame in the oasthouse.

Hops!

sagd he.

— Smoke and coke choke!

lauffed till the tear trickled drown a thigh the loafers all but a sheep’s whosepants that swished to the lord he hadn’t and the starer his story was talled to who felt that, the fierifornax being thurst on him motophosically, as Omar sometime notes, such a satuation, debauchly to be watched for, would empty dempty him down to the ground.

— And hopy dope!

sagd he, anded the enderer, now dyply hypnotised or hopeseys doper himself.

And kersse him, sagd he, after inunder tarrapoulling, and the shines he cuts, shinar, the screeder, the stitchimesnider, adepted to nosestorsioms in his budinholder, cummanisht, sagd he (fouyoufoukou!

), which goes in the ways smooking publics, sagd he, bomboosting to be in thelitest civille row faction for a dubblebrasterd, navvygaitered (flick off that hvide aske, big head!

), sagd he, the big bag of my hamd till hem, tollerloon, sagd he, with his pudny bun brofkost when he walts meet the bangd.

I will put his fleas of wood in the flour, and he sagd, behunt on the oatshus, the not wellmade one, sagd he, the kersse of my armsore appal this most ummentionablest of men (mundering eeriesk, if he didn’t scalded him all the shimps names in his gitter!)

a coathemmed gusset sewer, sagd he, his first cudgin is an innvalet in the unitred stables, which is not feed tonights a kirtle offal fisk, and he is that woe worstered wastended shoot-maker whatever poked a noodle in a clouth!

So for the second tryon all the meeting of the acarras had it.

How he hised his bungle oar his shourter and cut the pinter off his pourer and lay off for Fjellagulphia in the farning.

From his dhruimadhreamdhrue back to Brighten-pon-the-Baltic, from our lund’s rund turs bag til threathy hoeres a wuke.

Ugh!

— Stuff, Taaffe, stuff!

interjoked it his wife’s hopesend to the boath of them consistently.

Come back to May Aileen.

— Ild luck to it!

blastfumed the nowraging scamptail, in flating furies outs trews his cammelskins, the flashlight of his ire wackering from the eye-winker on his masttop.

And aye far he fared from Afferik Arena and yea near he night till Blawland Bearring, baken be the brazen sun, buttered be the snows.

And the sea shoaled and the saw squalled.

And, soaking scupper, didn’t he drain!

A pause.

Infernal machinery (seareel number: Bullysacre, dig care a dig) having thus passed the buck to billy back from jack (finder the keeper) as the baffling yarn sailed in circles it was now high tide for the reminding pair of snipers to be suitably punished like the pervious oelkenner done till they had liquorally no more powers to their elbow.

Ignorinsers’ bliss, therefore, their not to say rifle butt target, none too wisefolly, poor fish (he is eating, he is spun, is milked, he dives), upholding a lampthorne of lawstift as wand of welcome to all men in bonafay (and the corollas he so has saved gainsts the virus he has thus injected!

), discoastedself to that kipsie point of its Dublin bar where, breaking and entering, from the outback’s dead heart, Glasthule Bourne or Boehernapark Nolagh, by wattsismade or bianconi, astraylians in island, a wellknown tall hat blown in between houses by a nightcap of that silk or it might be a black velvet and a kiber galler dragging his hunker were signalling gael warnings towards Wazwollenzee Haven to give them their beerings, east circular route or elegant central highway.

Open, ’tis luck will have it!

Lifeboat Alloe, Noeman’s Woe, Hircups Emptybolly!

With winkles, whelks and cocklesent jelks.

Let be buttercup eve lit by night in the Phoenix!

Music.

And old lotts have funn at Flammagen’s ball.

Till Irinwakes from Slumber Deep.

How they succeeded by courting daylight in saving darkness he who loves will see.

Busimess.

His bestness.

Copeman helpen.

Contrescene.

He cupped his years to catch me’s to you in what’s yours so as minest to hissent, giel as gail, geil as gaul, Odorozone, now ourmenial servent, blanding rum, milk and toddy with I hand it to you.

Saying whiches, see his bow on the hapence, with a pattedyr but digit here, he scooped their hens, hounds and horses, biddy by bunny, with an arc of his covethand, saved from the drohnings they might oncounter, intill his cubid long to hide in dry.

Aside.

Your sows tin the topple, dodgers, trink me dregs!

Zoot!

And with the gush of a spring alice the fossickers and swagglers with him on the hoof from down under spiked forth desert roses in that mulligar scrub.

Reenter Ashe Junior.

Peiwei toptip, nankeen pontdelounges.

Gives fair day.

Cheroot.

Cheevio!

Off.

— Take off thatch whitehat (lo, Kersse come in back bespoking of loungeon off the Boildawl stumplecheats for rushirishis Irush-Irish, dangieling his old Conan over his top gallant shouldier so was, lao yiu shao, he’d like more look a novicer on the nevay).

— Tick off that whiltehot, you scum of a botch (of Kersse who, as he turned out, alas, hwen ching hwan chang, had been mocking his hollaballoon a sample of the costume of the country).

— Tape oaf that saw foull and sew wrong, welsher, you suck of a thick, stock and the udder, and confiteor yourself (for bekersse he had cuttered up and misfutthered in the most multiplest manner for that poor old bridge’s masthard slouch a shook of cloakses the wise, hou he pouly hung hoang tseu, his own fitther couldn’t nose him).

Chorus: With his coate so graye.

And his pounds that he pawned from the burning.

— And, haikon or hurlin, who did you do at doyle today, my horsey dorksey gentryman?

— Serge Mee, suit!

sazd he, tersey kersey.

And when Tersse had sazd this Kersse stood them the whole koursse of training how the whole blazy raze ocurraghed, from lambkinsback to sliving board and from spark to phoenish.

And he tassed him tartly and he sassed him smartly, tig for tager, strop for stripe, as long as there’s a lyasher on a kyat.

And they peered him beheld on the pyre.

And it was so.

Behold.

— Same capman no nothing horces two feller he feller go where.

Isn’t that effect?

