
Well, even should not the framing up of such figments in the evidential order bring the true truth to light as fortuitously as a dimseer’s setting of a starchart might (heaven helping it!)

uncover the nakedness of an unknown body in the fields of blue or as forehearingly as the sibspeeches of all mankind have foliated (earth seizing them!)

from the root of somefunner’s stotter, all the soundest sense to be found immense our special mentalists now holds (securus iudicat orbis terrarum) that by such playing possum our hagious curious encestor bestly saved his brush with his posterity, you, charming coparcenors, us, heirs of his tailsie.

Gundogs of all breeds were beagling with renounced urbiandorbic bugles, hot to run him, given law, on a scent breasthigh, keen for the worry.

View!

From his holt outratted, across the Juletide’s genial corsslands of Humfries Chase from Mullinahob and Peacockstown, then bearing right upon Tankardstown, the outlier, a white noelan which Mr Loewensteil FitzUrse’s basset beaters had first misbadgered for a bruin of some swart, led bayers the run, then through Raystown and Harlockstown and, louping the loup, to Tankardstown again.

Ear canny hare for doubling, through Cheeverstown they raced him, through Loughlinstown and Nutstown to wind him by the Boolies.

But from the good turn when he last was lost, check, upon Ye Hill of Rut in full winter coat with ticker pads, pointing for his rooming house in his rolltoproyal hessians, a deaf fuchser’s volponism hid him close in covert, miraculously ravenfed and buoyed up, in rumer, reticule, onasum and abomasum, upon (may Allbrewham have his mead!)

the creamclotted sherriness of cinnamon syllabub.

Mikkelraved, Nikkelsaved.

Hence hounds hied home.

Preservative perseverance in the reeducation of his intestines was thus the rebuttal by whilk he sort of git the big bulge on the whole bunch of spasoakers, dieting against glues and gravies, in that sometime prestreet protown.

Vainly violence, virulence and vituperation sought wellnigh utterly to attax and abridge, to derail and depontify, to enrate and inroad, to ongoad and unhume the great shipping mogul and underlinen overlord.

But the spoil of hesitants, the spell of hesitency.

His atake is it ashe, tittery taw tatterytail, hasitense humponadimply, heyheyheyhey a winceywencky.

Assemblymen murmured.

Reynard is slow!

One feared for his days.

Did there yawn?

’Twas his stommick.

Eruct?

The libber.

A gush?

From his visceals.

Pung?

Delivver him, orelode!

He had laid violent hands on himself, it was brought in Fugger’s Newsletter, lain down, all in, fagged out, with equally melancholy death.

For the triduum of Saturnalia his goatservant had paraded hiz willingsons in the Forum while the jenny infanted the lass to be greeted raucously with houx and epheus and (the Yard stated) measured with missiles too from a hundred of manhood and a wimmering of weibes.

Big went the bang: then wildewide was quiet: a report: badoldkaraktercommonorrumcanbung: silence: last Fama put it under ether.

The noase or the loal had dreven him blem, blem, stun blem.

Sparks flew.

He had fled again (open shunshema!)

this country of exile, sloughed off, sidleshomed via his old nordest subterranean tunnel shored with bedboards, stowed away and ankered in a dutch bottom, tunk the Arsa, hod S.S. Finlandia, and was even now, under an islamitic newname, occupying, in his seventh generation, a physical body, Cornelius Magrath’s, in Asia Major, where as Turk of the theatre (the first house all flatty: the king, eleven sharps) he had bepiastered the buikdanseuses from the opulence of his omnibox while as Arab at the streetdoor he had bepestered the bumbashaws for the alms of a para’s pence.

Wires hummed.

Peacefully general astonishment assisted by regrettitude had put a term till his existence: he saw the family saggarth, resigned himself, put off his remainders, was recalled and scrapheaped by the Maker.

Chirpings crossed.

An infamous private ailment (vulgovariovenereal) had claimed endright, closed his vicious circle, snap.

Jams jarred.

He had walked towards the middle of an ornamental lilypond when innebriated up to the point where braced shirts meet knickerbockers, as wangfish daring the buoyant waters, when rodmen’s firstaiding hands had rescued un from very possibly several feet of demifrish water.

Mush spread.

On Umbrella Street, where he did drinks from a pumps, a kind workman, Mr Whitlock, gave him a piece of his wood.

What words of power were made fas between them, ekenames and auchnomes, acnomina ecnumina, that, O that, did Hansard tell us, would gar ganz Dub’s ear wag in every pub of all the citta!

Batty believes a baton while Hogan hears a hod yet Peer prefers a punsil shapner and Cope and Bull go cup and ball.

And the Cassidy-Craddock rome and reme round e’er a wiege ne’er a waage is still immer and immor awagering over it, a cradle with a care in it or a casket with a kick behind.

Toties testies quoties questies.

The war is in words and the wood is the world.

Maply me, willowy we, hickory he and yew yourselves.

Howforhim chirrupeth evereachbird!

From golddawn glory to glowworm gleam.

We were low quacks did we not tacit turn.

Elsewere there here no concern of the Guinnesses.

Cracklings crickled.

A human pest cycling (pist!)

and recycling (past!)

about the sledgy streets of the garden -city, here he was (pust!)

again!

He was loose at large and (O baby!)

might be anywhere, but only the ruining of the rain has heard.

Morse nuisance noised when a disguised exnun of huge standbuild and masculine manners in her fairly fat forties, Carpulenta Gygasta, hattracted hattention by harbitrary conduct with a hominibuzz.

Aerials bizzed to coastal listeners of an oertax collector’s budget, fullybigs, sporran, tie, tuft, tabard and bloody antichill cloak, its tailor’s (Baernfather’s) tab reading V.P.H., found nigh Scald-brothar’s Hole, and divers shivered to think what kaind of beast, wolves, croppies or fourpenny friars had devoured him.

C.W.

cast wide.

Hvidfinns lyk, drohneth svertgleam, Valkir lockt.

On his pinksir’s postern, the boys had it, at Whitweekend had been nailed an inkedup name and title, inscribed in the national cursives, accelerated, regressive, filiform, turreted, and envemoloped in piggotry: Move up, Mumpty!

Mike room for Rumpty!

By order, Nickellous Plugg!

And this go, no pentecostal jest about it, how gregarious his race soever or skilful learned wise cunning knowledgable clear profound his saying fortitudofraught or prudentiaproven, were he chief, count, general, fieldmarshal, prince, king or Myles the Slasher in his person, with a moliamordhar mansion in the Breffnian empire and a place of inauguration on the hill of Tullymongan, there had been real murder of the ragheallach royghal raxacraxian variety: the MacMahon chaps, it was, that had done him in.

On the field of Verdor the rampant combatants had left him lion with his dexter handcoup wresterected in a puree de paumee bloody proper.

Indeed not a few thick and thin wellwishers, mostly of the clontarfminded class (Colonel John Bawle O’Roarke, feroxamplus), even ventured so far as to loan or beg copies of D. Blayny’s trilingual triweekly, Scatterbrains’ Aftening Posht, so as to make certain sure onetime and be satisfied of their quasicontribusodalitarian’s having become genuinely quite beetly dead whether by land whither by water.

Transocean atalaclamoured him: The latter!

The latter!

Shall their hope then be silent or Macfarlane lack of lamentation?

He lay under leagues of it in deep Bartholomew’s Deep.

Achdung!

Pozor!

Attenshune!

Vikeroy Besights Smucky Yung Pigeschoolies.

Tri Paisdinernes Eventyr Med Lochlanner Fathach I Fionnuisgehaven.

Bannalanna Bangs Ballyhooly Out Of Her Buddaree Of A Bullavogue.

Wherefore let it hardly by any being thinking be said either or thought that the prisoner of that sacred edifice, were he an Ivor the Boneless or an Olaf the Hvide, was at his best a onestone parable, a rude breathing on the void of to be, a venter hearing his own bauchspeech in backwords, or, more strictly, but tristurned initials, the cluekey to a worldroom beyond the roomwhorld; for scarce one, or pathetically few, of his dodecanal sammenlivers cared seriously or for long to doubt with Kurt Fuld van Dijke (the gravitational pull perceived by certain fixed residents and the capture of uncertain comets chancedrifting through our system suggesting an authenticitatem of his aliquitudinis) the canonicity of his existence as a tesseract.

But, their bright little contemporaries notwithstanding, brave news world come to town of how on the morrowing morn of the suicidal murder of the unrescued expatriate, aslike as asnake comes sliduant down that oaktree onto the duke of beavers (you may have seen some liquidamber exude exotic from a balsam poplar at Parteen-a-lax, Limestone Road, and cried: Abies Magnifica!

not, noble fir?

), a quarter of nine, imploring his resipiency, saw the infallible spike of smoke jutstiff punctual from the seventh gable of our Quintus Centimachus’ porphyroid buttertower and ten thirsty p.m., with oaths upon his lastingness (estout pourporteral!

), the lamps of maintenance, beaconsfarafield, innerhalb the ziggurat, all brevetnamed, the wasting wyvern, the tawny of his mane, the swinglowswaying bluepaw brors, the outstanding man, the lolllike lady, being litten for the long (O laud, how long!)

lifesnight, a suffusion of fineglass transom and leadlight panes.

En caecos harauspices!

Annos longos patimur!

Dispersal women wondered.

Was she fast?

Do tell us allabout.

As we want to hear allabout.

So tellus tellas allabouter.

Finickin here and funickin there.

Or whether she looked alottylike.

Like ussies.

And whether the why he had his windup.

Like themses.

Shut?

Notes and queries, tipbids and answers, the laugh and the shout, the ards and downs.

Now listen to one aneither and liss them down and smoothen out your leaves of rose.

The war is o’er.

Wimwim wimwim!

Was it Unity Moore or Estella Swifte or Varina Fay or Quarta Quaedam?

Toemaas, mark oom for yor ounckel!

Pigeys, hold op med yer leg!

Who, but who (for second time of asking), was then the scourge of the parts about folkrich Lucalizod, it was wont to be asked, as, in ages behind of the Homo Capite Erectus, what price Peabody’s money, or, to put it bluntly, whence is the herrington’s white cravat, as, in epochs more cainozoic, who struck Buckley, though nowadays as thentimes every schoolfilly of sevenscore moons or more who knows her intimologies and every colleen bawl aroof and every redflam-melwaving warwife and widowpeace upon Dublin Wall for ever knows as yayas is yayas how it was Buckleyself (we need no blooding paper to tell it neither) who struck and the Russian generals (da!

da!)

instead of Buckley who was caddishly struck by him when by herselves.

What fullpried paulpoison in the spy of three castles or which hatefilled smileyseller?

And that such a vetriol of vinom, that queen’s head affranchisant, a quiet stinkingplaster zeal could cover, prepostered or postpaid!

The loungelizards of the pumproom had their nine days’ jeer and pratschkats at their platschpails too and holenpolendom beside, Szpaszpas Szpissmas, the zhanyzhonies, when, still believing in her owenglass when izarres were twinklins that the upper reaches of her mouthless face and her impermanent waves were the better half of her, one nearer him, dearer than all, first warming creature of his early morn, bondwoman of the man of the house and murrmurr of all the mackavicks, she who had given his eye for her bed and a tooth for a child till one one and one ten and one hundred again, O me and O ye, cadet and prim, the hungray end anngreen (and if she is older now than her teeth she has hair that is younger than thighne, my dear!

), she who shuttered him after his fall and waked him widowt sparing and gave him keen and made him able and held adazillahs to each arche of his noes, she who will not rast her from her running to seek him till, with the kelp of the Okeanic, some such times that she shall have been after hiding the crumbends of his enormousness in the areyou lookingfor Pearlfar sea (ur, uri, uria!

), stood forth, buruzburn the gorygory old danworld, in gogor’s name, for gagar’s sake, dragging the countryside in her train, with her louisequean’s brogues and her culunder buzzle and her little bolero, boa and all, and two times twenty curlicorms for her hairdress, specks on her eyeux and spudds in horeilles and a circusfix riding her Parisianne’s cockneze, a vaunt her straddle from Equerry Egon, when Tinktink in the churchclose clinked Steploajazzyma Sunday, sola, with pawns, prelates and pookas pelotting in her piecebag for Handiman the Chomp, Esquoro, biskbask, to crush the slander’s head.

Wery weeny wight, plead for Morandmor!

Notre Dame de la Ville, mercy of thy balmheartsyheat!

Ogrowdnyk’s beyond herbata tay, wort of the drogist.

Bulk him no bulkis.

Be still, O quick!

Speak him, dumb!

Hush, ye fronds of Ulma!

Stimm unto stein!

And let him rest, thou wayfarer, and take no gravespoil from him!

Neither mar his mound!

The bane of Tut is on it.

Ware!

But there’s a little lady waiting and her name is A.L.P.

And you’ll agree.

She must be she.

For her holden heirheaps hanging down her back.

He spenth his strenth amok haremscarems: Poppy, Narancy, Giallia, Chlora, Marinka, Anileen, Parme.

And ilk a those dames had her rainbow huemoures yet for whilk o her whims but he coined a cure.

Tifftiff togay, kissykissy tonay and agelong pine tomauranna.

Then who but Crippled-with-Children would speak up for Dropping-with-Sweat?

Sold him her lease of ninenineninetee, Tresses undresses so dyedyedaintee, Goo, the groot gudgeon, gulphed it all.

Hoo was the C.O.D.?

Bung!

At Island Bridge she met her tide.

Attabom, attabom, attabombomboom!

The Fin had a flux and his Ebba a ride.

Attabom, attabom, attabombomboom!

We’re all up to the years in hues and cribies.

That’s what she’s done for wee!

Woe!

Nomad may roam with Nabuch but let naaman laugh at Jordan!

For we, we have taken our sheet upon her stones where we have hanged our hearts in her trees; and we list, as she bibs us, by the waters of babalong.

In the name of Annah the Allmaziful, the Everliving, the Bringer of Plurabilities, haloed be her eve, her singtime sung, her rill be run, unhemmed as it is uneven!

Her untitled mamafesta memorialising the Mosthighest has gone by many names at disjointed times.

Thus we hear of The Augusta Angustissimost for Old Seabeastius’ Salvation, Rockabill Booby in the Wave Trough, Here’s to the Relicts of All Decencies, Anna Stessa’s Rise to Notice, Knickle Down Duddy Gunne and Arishe Sir Cannon, My Golden One and My Selver Wedding, Amoury Treestam and Icy Siseule, Saith a Sawyer til a Strame, Ik dik dopedope et tu mihimihi, Buy Birthplate for a Bite, Which of your Hesterdays Mean ye to Morra?, Hoebegunne the Hebrewer Hit Waterman the Brayned, Arcs in his Ceiling Flee Chinx on the Flur, Rebus de Hibernicis, The Crazier Letters, Groans of a Britoness, Peter Peopler Picked a Plot to Pitch his Poppolin, An Apology for a Big (some such nonoun as Husband or Husboat or Hosebound is probably understood for we have also the pluterplethoric My Hoonsbood Haansbaad’s a Journey to Porthergill Gone and He Never Has the Hour), Ought One To Visit One?, For Ark see Zoo, Cleopater’s Needlework Ficturing Aldborougham on the Sahara with the Coombing of the Cammmels and the Parlourmaids of Aegypt, Cock in the Pot for Father, Placeat Vestrae, A New Cure for an Old Clap, Where Portentos they’d Grow Gonder how I’d Wish I Woose a Geese, Gettle Netties, Thrust him not, When the Myrtles of Venice Played to Bloccus’s Line, To Plenge Me High He Waives Chiltern on Friends, Oremunds Queue Visits Amen Mart, E’en Tho’ I Granny a-be He would Fain Me Cuddle, Twenty of Chambers, Weighty Ten Beds and a Wan Ceteroom, I Led the Life, Through the Boxer Coxer Rising in the House with the Golden Stairs, The Following Fork, He’s my O’Jerusalem and I’m his Po, The Best in the West, By the Stream of Zemzem under Zigzag Hill, The Man That Made His Mother in the Marlborry Train, Try Our Taal on a Taub, The Log of Anny to the Base All, Nopper Tipped a Nappiwenk to his Notylytl Dantsigirls, Prszss Orel Orel the King of Orlbrdsz, Intimier Minnelisp of an Extorreor Monolothe, Drink to Him, My Juckey, and Dhoult Bemine Thy Winnowing Sheet, I Ask You to Believe I was his Mistress, He Can Explain, From Victrolia Nuancee to Allbart Noahnsy, Da’s a Daisy so Guimea your Handsel too, What Barbaras Done to a Barrel Organ Before the Rank, Tank and Bombtail, Huskvy Admortal, What Jumbo made Jalice and what Anisette to Him, Ophelia’s Culpreints, Hear Hubty Hublin, My Old Dansk, I am Older nor the Rogues among Whisht I Slips and He Calls Me his Dual of Ayessha, Suppotes a Ventriliquorst Merries a Corpse, Lapps for Finns this Funnycoon’s Week, How the Buckling Shut at Rush in January, Look to the Lady, From the Rise of the Dudge Pupublick to the Fall of the Potstille, Of the Two Ways of Opening the Mouth, I have not Stopped Water Where It Should Flow and I Know the Twentynine Names of Attraente, The Tortor of Tory Island Traits Galasia like his Milchcow, From Abbeygate to Crowalley Through a Lift in the Lude, Smocks for Their Graces and Me Aunt for Them Clodshoppers, How to Pull a Good Horuscoup even when Oldsire is Dead to the World, Inn the Gleam of Waherlow, Fathe He’s Sukceded to My Esperations, Thee Steps Forward, Two Stops Back, My Skin Appeals to Three Senses and My Curly Lips Demand Columbkisses, Gage Street on a Crany’s Savings, Them Lads made a Trion of Battlewatschers and They Totties a Doeit of Deers, In My Lord’s Bed by One Whore Went Through It, Mum It Is All Over, Cowpoyride by Twelve Acre Terriss in the Unique Estates of Amessican, He Gave me a Thou so I Serve Him with Thee, Of all the Wide Torsos in all the Wild Glen, O’Donogh, White Donogh, He’s Hue to Me Cry, I’m the Stitch in his Baskside, You’d be Nought without Mom, To Keep the Huskies off the Hustings and Picture Pets from Lifting Shops, Norsker, Torsker, Find the Poddle, He Perssed Me Here with the Ardour of a Tonnoburkes, A Boob was Weeping, His Mower was Reaping, O’Loughlin, Up from the Pit of my Stomach I Swish you the White of the Mourning, Inglo-Andean Medoleys from Tommany Moohr, The Great Polynesional Entertrainer Exhibits Ballantine Brautchens with the Link of Natures, The Mimic of Meg, Neg and the Mackeys, Entered as the Lastest Pigtarial and My Pooridiocal at Stitchioner’s Hall, Siegfield Follies and or a Gentlehomme’s Faut Pas, See the First Book of Jealesies Pessim, The Suspended Sentence, A Pretty Brick Story for Childsize Heroes, As Lo Our Sleep, I Knew I’d Got it in Me so Thit Settles That, Thonderbalt Captain Smeth and La Belle Sauvage Pocahonteuse, Way for Wet Week Welikin’s Douchter Marianne, The Last of the Fingallians, It Was Me Egged Him On to the Stork Exchange and Lent My Dutiful Face to His Customs, Chee Chee Cheels on their China Miction, Pickedmeup Peters, Lumptytumtumpty had a Big Pall, Pimpimp Pimpimp, Measly Ventures of Two Lice and the Fall of Fruit, The Fokes Family Interior, If my Spreadeagles Wasn’t so Tight I’d Loosen my Cursits on that Bunch of Maggie-straps, Allolosha Popofetts and Howhe Cotchme Eye, Seen Aples and Thin Dyed, i big U to Beleaves from Love and Mother, Fine’s Fault was no Felon, Exat Delvin Renter Life, The Flash that Flies from Vuggy’s Eyes has Set Me Hair on Fire, His is the House that Malt Made, Divine Views from Back to the Front, Abe to Sare Stood Icyk Neuter till Brahm Taulked Him Common Sex, A Nibble at Eve Will that Bowal Relieve, Allfor Guineas, Sounds and Compilments Libidous, Seven Wives Awake Aweek, Airy Ann and Berber Blut, Amy Licks Porter while Huffy Chops Eads, Abbrace of Umbellas or a Trippple of Caines, Buttbutterbust, From the Manorlord Hoved to the Misses O’Mollies and from the Dames to their Sames, Manyfestoons for the Colleagues on the Green, An Outstanding Back and an Excellent Halfcentre if Called On, As Tree is Quick and Stone is White So is My Washing Done by Night, First and Last Only True Account all about the Honorary Mirsu Earwicker L.S.D.

and the Snake (Nuggets!)

by a Woman of the World who only can Tell Naked Truths about a Dear Man and all his Conspirators how they all Tried to Fall him by Putting it all around Lucalizod about Privates Earwicker and a Pair of Sloppy Sluts plainly Showing all the Unmentionability falsely Accusing about the Raincoats.

The proteiform graph itself is a polyhedron of scripture.

There was a time when naif alphabetters would have written it down the tracing of a purely deliquescent recidivist, possibly ambidextrous, snubnosed probably and presenting a strangely profound rainbowl in his (or her) occiput.

To the hardily curiosing entomophilust then it has shown a very sexmosaic of nymphosis in which the eternal chimerahunter, Oriolopos, now frond of sugars, then lief of saults, the sensory crowd in his belly coupled with an eye for the goods trooth bewilderblissed by their night effluvia with guns like drums and fondlers like forceps, persequestellates his vanessas from flore to flore.

Somehows this sounds like the purest kidooleyoon wherein our madern-accrution of lour lore is rich.

All’s so herou from us hin in a kitchernott darkness, by hasard and worn rolls arered, we must grope on till zerogh hour like pou owl giaouirs as we are would we salve aught of moments for our aysore today.

Amousin though not but.

Closer inspection of the bordereau would reveal a multiplicity of personalities inflicted on the document or documents and some prevision of virtual crime or crimes might be made by anyone unwary enough before any suitable occasion for it or them had so far managed to happen along.

In fact, under the close eyes of the inspector the traits featuring the chiaroscuro coalesce, their contrarieties eliminated, in one stable somebody similarly as by the providential warring of heartshaker with housebreaker and of dramdrinker against freethinker our social something bowls along bumpily, experiencing a jolting series of prearranged disappointments, down the long lane of (it’s as semper as oxhousehumper!)

generations, more generations and still more generations.

Say, baroun lousadoor, who in hallhagal wrote the durn thing anyhow?

Erect, beseated, amountback, against a partywall, below freezigrade, by the use of quill or style, with turbid or pellucid mind, accompanied or the reverse by mastication, interrupted by visit of seer to scribe or of scribe to site, atwixt two showers or atosst of a trike, rained upon or blown around, by a rightdown regular racer from the soil or by a too pained whittlewit laden with the loot of learning?

Now, patience.

And remember patience is the great thing.

And above all things else we must avoid anything like being or becoming out of patience.

A good plan used by worried business folk who may not have had many momentums to master Kung’s doctrine of the meang or the propriety codestruces of Carprimustimus is just to think of all the sinking fund of patience possessed in their conjoint names by both brothers Bruce with whom are incorporated their Scotch spider and Elberfeld’s Calculating Horses.

If after years upon years of delving in ditches dark one tubthumper more than others, Kinihoun or Kahanan, giardarner or mear measenmanouger, has got up for the darnall same purpose of reassuring us with all the barbar of the Carragee-house that our great ascendant was properly speaking three syllables less than his own surname (yes, yes, less!

), that the ear of Dionn Earwicker aforetime was the trademark of a broadcaster with wicker local jargon for an ace’s patent (Hear!

Calls!

Everywhair!

), then as to this radiooscillating epiepistle to which, cotton, silk or samite, kohol, gall or brickdust, we must ceaselessly return, whereabouts exactly at present in Siam, Hell or Tophet under that glorisol which plays touraloup with us in this Aludin’s Cove of our cagacity is that bright soandsuch to slip us the dinkum oil?

Naysayers we know.

To conclude purely negatively from the positive absence of political odia and monetary requests that its page cannot ever have been a penproduct of a man or woman of that period or those parts is only one more unlookedfor conclusion leaped at, being tantamount to inferring from the nonpresence of inverted commas (sometimes called quotation marks) on any page that its author was always constitutionally incapable of misappropriating the spoken words of others.

Luckily there is another cant to the questy.

Has any fellow of the dime a dozen type, it might with some profit some dull evening quietly be hinted—has any usual sort of ornery josser, flatchested, fortyish, faintly flatulent and given to ratiocination by syncopation in the elucidation of complications, of his greatest Fung Yang dynasdescendanced, only another the son of, in fact, ever looked sufficiently longly at a quite everywaylooking stamped addressed envelope?

Admittedly it is an outer husk: its face, in all its featureful perfection of imperfections, is its fortune: it exhibits only the civil or military clothing of whatever passionpallid nudity or plaguepurple nakedness may happen to tuck itself under its flap.

Yet to concentrate solely on the literal sense or even the psychological content of any document to the sore neglect of the enveloping facts themselves circumstantiating it is just as hurtful to sound sense (and, let it be added, to the truest taste) as were some fellow in the act of perhaps getting an intro from another fellow turning out to be a friend in need of his, say, to a lady of the latter’s acquaintance, engaged in performing the elaborative antecistral ceremony of upstheres, straightway to run off and vision her plump and plain in her natural altogether, preferring to close his blinkhard’s eyes to the ethiquethical fact that she was, after all, wearing for the space of the time being some definite articles of evolutionary clothing, inharmonious creations, a captious critic might describe them as, or not strictly necessary or a trifle irritating here and there but for all that suddenly full of local colour and personal perfume and suggestive, too, of so very much more and capable of being stretched, filled out, if need or wish were, of having their surprisingly like coincidental parts separated, don’t they now, for better survey by the deft hand of an expert, don’t you know?

Who in his heart doubts either that the facts of feminine clothiering are there all the time or that the feminine fiction, stranger than the facts, is there also at the same time, only a little to the rere?

Or that one may be separated from the other?

Or that both may then be contemplated simultaneously?

Or that each may be taken up and considered in turn apart from the other?

Here let a few artifacts fend in their own favour.

The river felt she wanted salt?

That was just where Brien came in.

The country asked for bearspaw for dindin?

And boundin aboundin it got it surly.

We who live under heaven, we of the clovery kingdom, we middleseas people have often watched the sky overreaching the land.

We suddenly have.

Our isle is Sainge.

The place.

That stern chuckler, Mayhappy Mayhapnot, once said to repeation in that lutran conservatory way of his that Isitachapel-Asitalukin was the one place, ult aut nult, in this madh vaal of tares (whose verdhure’s yellowed therever Phaiton parks his car while its tamelised tay is the drame of Drainophilias) where the possible was the improbable and the improbable the inevitable.

If the proverbial bishop of our holy and undivided with this me ken or no me ken Zot is the Quiztune havvermashed his twoe nails on the head we are in for a sequentiality of improbable possibles though possibly nobody after having grubbed up a lock of cwold cworn aboove his subject probably in Harrystotalies or the vivle will go out of his way to applaud him on the onboiassed back of his remark for, utterly impossible as are all these here events, they are probably as like those which may have taken place as any others which never took person at all are ever likely to be.

Ahahn!

About that original hen.

Midwinter (fruur or kuur?)

was in the offing and Premver a promise of a pril when, as kischabrigies sang life’s old sahatsong, an iceclad shiverer, merest of bantlings, observed a cold fowl behaviourising strangely on that fatal midden or chip factory or comical-bottomed copsjute (dump for short) afterwards changed into the orangery when in the course of deeper demolition unexpectedly one bushman’s holiday its limon threw up a few spontaneous fragments of orangepeel, the last remains of an outdoor meal by some unknown sunseeker or placehider illico way back in his mistridden past.

What child of a strandlooper but keepy little Kevin in the despondful surrounding of such sneezing cold would ever have trouved up on a strete that was called strate a motive for future saintity by euchring the finding of the Ardagh chalice by another heily innocent and beachwalker whilst trying with pious clamour to wheedle Tipperaw raw raw reeraw puteters out of Now Sealand in spight of the patchpurple of the massacre, a dual a duel to die to day, goddam and biggod, sticks and stanks, of most of the Jacobiters.

The bird in the case was Belinda of the Dorans, a more than quinquegintarian (Terziis prize with Serni medal, Cheepalizzy’s Hane Exposition), and what she was scratching at at the hour of klokking twelve looked for all this zogzag world like a goodishsized sheet of letterpaper originating by transhipt from Boston (Mass.)

of the last of the first to Dear whom it proceeded to mention Maggy well & allathome’s health well only the hate turned the milk on the van Houtens and the general’s elections with a lovely face of some born gentleman with a beautiful present of wedding cakes for dear thank you Chriesty and with grand funferall of poor Father Michael don’t forget unto life’s & Muggy well how are you Maggy & hopes soon to hear well & must now close it with fondest to the twoinns with four crosskisses for holy paul holey corner holipoli whollyisland pee ess from (locust may eat all but this sign shall they never) affectionate largelooking tache of tch.

The stain, and that a teastain (the overcautelousness of the masterbilker here, as usual, signing the page away), marked it off on the spout of the moment as a genuine relique of ancient Irish pleasant pottery of that lydialike languishing class known as a hurry-me-o’er-the-hazy.

Why then how?
