— How near do you feel to this capocapo of promontoryism?

— There do be days of dry coldness between us when he does be like a lodging house far far astray and there do be nights of wetwindwhistling when he does be making me onions woup all kinds of ways.

— Now you are mehrer the murk, Lansdowne Road.

She’s threwed her pippin’s thereabouts and they’ve cropped up tooth on eydge with hates to leaven this socried isle.

Now, thornyborn, follow the spotlight, please!

Concerning a boy.

Are you acquainted with a pagany vicariously known as Toucher “Thom” who is?

I suggest Finolan as his habitat.

Consider yourself on the stand now and watch your words, take my advice.

Let your motto be: Inter nubila numbum.

— Never you mind about my mother or her hopitout.

I consider, if I did, I would feel frightfully ashamed of admired vice.

— He is a man of around fifty, struck on Anna Lynsha’s Pekoe with milk and whisky, who does messages and has more dirt on him than an old dog has fleas, kicking stones and knocking snow off walls.

Have you ever heard of this old boy “Thom” or “Thim” of the fishy stare who belongs to Kimmage, a crofting district, and is not all there, and is all the more to himself since he is not so, being most of his time down at the Green Man where he steals, pawns, belches and is a curse, drinking gaily two hours after closing time, with the coat on him skinside out against rapparitions, with his socks outsewed his springsides, clapping his hands in a feeble sort of way and systematically mixing with the public going for groceries, slapping greats and littlegets soundly with his cattegut belts, flapping baresides and waltzywembling about in his accoutrements always in font of the tubbernuckles, like a longarmed lugh, when he would be finished with his tea?

Crazy, isn’t that?

— Is it that fellow?

As mad as the brambles he is.

Touch him.

With the lawyers sticking to his trewsershins and the swatmenotting on the basque of his beret.

He has kissed me more than once, I am sorry to say, and if I did commit gladrolleries may the loone forgive it!

O wait till I tell you!

— We are not going yet.

— And look here!

Here’s what he done, as snooks as I am saying so, my dear!

— Get out, you dirt!

You’re not!

Unhindered and odd times?

Mere thumbshow?

Lately?

— How do I know?

Search my billet.

Buy a barrack pass.

Ask the horneys.

Tell the robbers.

— You are alluding to the picking pockets in Lower O’Connell Street?

— I am illuding to the Pekin packet but I am eluding from Laura Connor’s treat.

— A strangely striking pert of speech for the hottest worked word of ur sprogue.

Now, just wash and brush up your memoirias a little bit.

So I find, referring to the pater of the present man, an erely demented brickthrower, I am wondering to myself in my mind, qua our arc of the covenant, was Toucher, a methodist, whose name, as others say, is not really “Thom”, was this salt son of a century from Boaterstown, Shivering William, the sealiest old forker ever hawked crannock, after his teeth were shaken out of their suckets by the wrang dog, who is always with him at the Big Elm and the Arch, for having 5 pints 73 of none Eryen blood in him, abaft the seam level, the scatterling, was he wearing his cowbeamer and false clothes of a brewer’s grains pattern with back buckons with his motto on, Yule Remember, ostensibly for that occasion only of the Twelfth Day Pax and Quantum wedding, I’m wondering.

— I bet you are.

Well, he was wandering, give him his due, in his mind too, you bet, whatever was his matter, for I am sorry to have to tell you, hullo and evoe, they were coming down from off him.

— How culious an epiphany!

Hodie casus esobhrakonton?

— It looked very like it.

— Needer knows necess and neither garments.

Man is minded of Meagher, what?

Woolly Walty?

— Ay, another good button gone wrong.

— Blondman’s blaff!

Like a skib leaked lintel the arbour leidend with …?

— Pamelas, peggylees, pollywollies, questuants, quaintaquilties, quick-amerries.

— And, concaving now convexly to the semidemihemispheres, from the female angle, music minnestirring, were the subligate sisters, P and , Clopatrick’s cherierapest, mutatis mutandis, in pretty much the same pickle, the peach of all piedom, the quest of all quicks?

— Peequeen ourselves, the prettiest pickling of unmatchemable mute antes I ever bopeeped at, seesaw shallshee, since the town went gonning on Pranksome Quaine.

— Silks apeel and sulks alusty?

— Boy and giddle, gape and bore.

— I hear these two goddesses are liable to sue him?

— Well, I hope the two Collinses don’t leg a bail to shoot him.

— Both were white in black arpists at cloever spillin, knickt?

— Gels bach, I languished liszted.

Etoudies for the right hand.

— Were they now?

And were they watching you as watcher as well?

— Where do you get that wash?

This representation does not accord with my experience.

They were watching the watched watching.

Vechers all.

— Good.

Hold that watching brief and keep this witching longuer.

Now, retouching friend Tomsky, the enemy, did you gather much from what he let drop?

We are sitting here for that.

— I was rooshian mad, no lie.

About his shapeless hat.

— I suspect you must have been.

— You are making your thunderous mistake.

But I was dung sorry for him too.

— O Schaum!

Not really?

Were you sorry you were mad with him then?

— When I tell you I was rooshiamarodnimad with myself altogether, so I was, for being sorry for him.

— So?

— Absolutely.

— Would you blame him any at all stages?

— I believe in many an old stager.

But what seemed sooth to a Greek summed nooth to a giantle.

Who kills the cat in Cairo coaxes cocks in Gaul.

— I put it to you that this was solely in his sunflower state and that his haliodraping hat was why maids all sighed for him, ventured and vied for him.

Hm?

— After Putawayo, Kansas, Liburnum and New Aimstirdames, it would not surprise me in the very least.

— That tare and this mole, your tear and our smile.

’Tis life that lies if woman’s eyes have been our old undoing.

Lid efter lid.

Reform in mine size his deformation.

Piffpuff up my nostril, would you, and puff the earthworm outer my ear?

— He could clouds boose his eyes to the birth of his garce, he could lump all his lot through the half of her play, but he jest couldn’t laugh through the whole of her farce becorpse he warn’t billed that way.

So he outandouts his volimetangere and has a lightning consultation and he downadowns his pantoloogions and made a piece of first perpersonal puetry that staystale remains to be.

Cleaned.

— Booms of bombs and heavy rethunders?

— This aim to you!

— The tail as you tell it, so mastrodantic, nearly takes your own mum-mouth’s breath away.

Your tropers are so unrelieved because his troopers were in difficulties.

Still, let stultitiam done in veino condone ineptias made of veritues.

How many were married amid that top of all strapping mornings, after the midnight turkey drive, my good dogwatcher?

— Puppaps.

That’d be telling.

With a hoh frohim and a heh fraher.

But, as regarbs Tummy Thornycraft, I defyne the lawn mare and the laney moweress and all the prentisses of wildes to massage him.

— Now from Gunner Shothand to Guinness Scenography.

Come to the ballay at the Tailors’ Hall.

We mean to be mellay on the Mailers’ Mall.

And leap, rink and make follay till the Gaelers’ Gall.

Awake!

Come, a wake!

Every old skin in the leather world, infect the whole stock company of the old house of the Leaking Barrel, was thomistically drunk, two by two, lairking o’tootlers with tambours a’beggars, the blog and turfs and the brandywine bankrompers, trou Normend fashion, I have been told, down to the bank lean clorks?

Some nasty blunt clubs were being operated after the tradition of a wellesleyan bottle riot act and there was a fall following a push and a few plates were being shied about and tumblers bearing traces of fresh porter rolling around, independent of that, for the ehren of Fyn’s Insul, and then followed that wapping breakfast at the Heaven and Covenant, with Rodey O’ echolowing how his breadcost on the voters would be a comeback for e’er a one, like the depredations of Scandalknivery, in and on usedtowobble sloops off cloasts, eh?

Would that be a talltale too?

This was the grandsire Orther.

This was his innwhite horse.

Sip?

— Well, naturally he was, louties aslo genderymen.

Being Kerssfesstiydt.

They came from all lands beyond the wave for songs of Inishfeel.

Whiskway and mortem!

No puseyporcious either, invitem kappines all round.

But the right reverend priest, Mr Hopsinbond, and the reverent bride eleft, Frizzy Fraufrau, were sober enough.

I think they were sober.

— I think you’re widdershins there about the right reverence.

Magraw for the Northwhiggern cupteam was wedding’s beastman, papers before us carry.

You saw him hurriedly, or did you, if that seme’s not irrelevant?

With Slater’s hammer, perhaps?

Or he was in serge?

— I horridly did.

On the stroke of the dozen.

I’m sure I’m wrong but I heard the irreverend Mr Magraw, in search of a stammer, kuckkuck kicking the bedding out of the old sexton, Red Fox-Goodman, around the sacristy, till they were bullbeadle black and bufeteer blue, while I and Flood and the other men, jazzlike brollies and sesuos, was gickling his missus to gackles in the hall, the divileen (she’s a lamp in her throth), with her cygncygn leckle and her twelve pound lach.

— A loyal wifish woman cacchinic wheepingcaugh!

While shelaylylaw was all their rage.

But you did establish personal contact?

In epexegesis or on a point of order?

— That perkumiary pond is beyawnd my pinnigay pretonsions.

I am resting on a pigs of cheesus but I’ve a big suggestion it was about the pint of porter.

— You are a suckersome!

But this all, as avis said to oska, was only that childbearer might blogas well sidesplit?

Where letties hereditate a dark mien swart hairy?

— Only.

’Twas womans’ too woman with mans’ throw man.

— Bully burley yet hardly hurley.

The saloon bulkhead, did you say, or the tweendecks?

— Between drinks, I deeply painfully repeat it.

— Was she wearing shubladey’s tiroirs in humour of her hubbishobbis, Massa’s star stellar?

— Mrs Tarr-Taylour?

Just a floating panel, secretairslidingdraws, a budge of klees on her schalther, a siderbrass sehdass on her anular fingring and forty croeclips in her curlingthongues.

— So this was the dope that woollied the cad that kinked the ruck that noised the rape that tried the sap that hugged the mort?

— That legged in the hoax that Joke bilked.

— The jest of junk the jungular?

— Jacked up in a jock the wrapper.

— Lollgoll!

You don’t soye so!

All upsydown her whole creation?

So there was nothing serical between you?

And Drysalter, father of Izod, how was he now?

— To the pink, man, like an allmanox, in his shirt and stickup, brustall to the bear, the Megalomagellan of our winevatswaterway, squeezing the life out of the liffey.

— Crestofer Carambas!

Such is zodisfaction.

You pink me!

He came, he kished, he conquered.

Vulturuvarnar!

The must of his glanzfull coaxing the beam in her eye?

That musked bell of this masked ball!

Annabella, Lovabella, Pullabella, yep?

— Yup!

Titentung Tollertone in S. Sabina’s.

Aye aye, she was lithe and pleasable.

Wilt thou the lee?

Wilt thou the hee?

Wilt thou the hussif?

— The quicker the deef the softer the sapstuff, but the main the mightier the stricter the strait.

To the vast go the game!

It is the circumconversioning of antelithual paganelles by a huggerknut cramwell energuman, or the caecodedition of an absquelitteris puttagonnianne to the herreroism of a cabotinesque exploser?

— I believe you.

Taiptope.

Reelly, O reelly!

— Nautaey, nautaey, we’re nowhere without ye!

In steam of kavos now arbatos above our hearths doth hum.

And Malkos crackles logs of fun while Anglys cheers our ingles.

So lent she him ear to burrow his manhood (or so it appierce) and borrow his namas?

Suilful eyes and sallowfoul hairweed and the sickly sigh from her gingerine mouth like a Dublin bar in the moarning.

— Primus auriforasti me.

— The park is gracer than the hole, says she, but shekelton’s my fortune?

— Eversought of being artained?

You’ve soft a say with ye, Flatter O’Ford, that, honey, I hurdley chew you.

— Is that answers?

— It am, queery!

— The house was Toot and Come-Inn by the bridge called after Tiltass, but are you solarly and salemly sure, beyond the shatter of the canicular year?

Nascitur ordo seculi nonfit.

— Siriusly and selenely sure behind the shutter.

Securius indicat umbris tellurem.

— Date as?

Your time of immersion?

We are still in drought of …?

— Amnis Dominae, Marcus of Corrig.

A laughin hunter and Purty Sue.

