
— Grassy ass ago.

And each was wrought with his other.

And his continence full.

The bivetellines, Metellus and Ametallikos, her crown pretenders, obscindgemeinded bickerers, varying directly, uruseye each oxesother, super-fetated (never cleaner of lamps frowned fiercelier on anointer of hinges), while their treegrown girls, king’s game, if he deign so, are in such transfusion just to know twigst timidy twomeys, for gracious sake, who is artthoudux from whose heterotropic, the sleepy or the glouch, for, shyly bawn and showly nursured, exceedingly nice girls can strike exceedingly hard times unless so richtly chosen’s by (what though of riches he have none and hope dashes hope on his heart’s horizon) to gar their great moments greater.

The thing is he must be put strait on the spot, no mere waterstichystuff in a selfmade world that you can’t believe a word he’s written in, not for pie, but one’s only owned by natural rejection.

Charley, you’re my darwing!

So sing they sequent the assent of man.

Till they go round if they go roundagain before breakparts and all dismissed.

They keep.

Step keep.

Step.

Stop.

Who is Fleur?

Where is Ange?

Or Gardoun?

Creedless, croonless hangs his haughty.

There end no moe red devil in the white of his eye.

Braglodyte him do a katadupe!

A condamn quondam jontom sick of a suckbut!

He does not know how his grandson’s grandson’s grandson’s grandson will stammer up in Peruvian for in the ersebest idiom I have done it equals I so shall do.

He dares not think why the grandmother of the grandmother of his grandmother’s grandmother coughed Russky with suchky husky accent since in the mouthart of the slove look at me now means I once was otherwise.

Nor that the mappamund has been changing pattern as youth play moves from street to street since time was and races were and wise ants hoarded and sauterelles were spendthrifts, no thing making newthing wealthshowever for a silly old Sol, healthytobedder and latewiser.

Nor that the turtling of a London’s alderman is ladled out by the waggerful to the regionals of pigmyland.

His part should say in honour bound: So help me symethew, sammarc, selluc and singin, I will stick to you, by gum, no matter what, bite simbum, and in case of the event coming off beforehand, even so you was to release me for the sake of the other cheap girl’s baby’s name, plaster me but I will pluckily well pull on the buckskin gloves because it is the month of brumes.

But Noodynaady’s actual ingrate tootle is of come into the garner, mauve, and thy nice are stores of morning and buy me a bunch of iodines.

Evidentament he has failed as tiercely as the deuce before.

For she is wearing none of the three.

And quite as patently there is a sort of a hole in the ballet through which the rest fell out.

For to explain why the residue is, was, or will not be, according to the eighth axiom, proceeded with, namely, since ever apart that gossan duad, so sure as their’s a patch on a pomelo, this yam ham in never live could, the shifting about of the lasses and the tug-of-love of the lads ending with a great deal of rough merriment, hoots, screams, scarf drill, cap fecking, ejaculations of aurinos, reechoable mirthpeals and general thumb-to-nosery (Myama’s a yaung yaung country), one must reckon with the sudden and gigantesquesque appearance unwithstandable as a general election in Barnado’s bearskin amongst the brawlmiddle of this village childergarten of the largely longsuffering laird of Lucanhof.

But, Vrayedevraye Blankdeblank, god of all machineries and tomestone of Barnstaple, by mortisection or vivisuture, splitten up or recompounded, an isaac jacquemin mauromormo milesian, how accountibus for him, moreblue?

Was he pitssched for an ensemple, as certain have dognosed of him, against our seawall by Rurie, Thoath and Cleaver, those three stout sweyn-hearts, Orion of the Orgiasts, Meereschal MacMuhun, Ipsedadden, the product of the extremes giving quotidients to our means, your brutest layaman with the princest champion in our archdeaconry, or so yclept, as might occur to anyone, from Clio’s clippings, which the chronicler of chivalries is sulpicious save he scan, for ancients link with presents as the human chain extends, have done, do and will again, as John, Polycarp and Ireneus eye-to-eye ayewitnessed unto Paddy Palmer, while monks sell yew to archers or the water of the livvying goes the way of all fish from Sara’s drawhead, the corralsome, to Isaac’s, the lauphed butt one, with her minnelisp ex-torreor to his moanolothe inturned?

So Perrichon with Bastienne or heavy Humph with airy Nan.

Ricqueracqbrimbillyjicqueyjocqjolicass?

How sowesthow, dulcisamica?

A and aa ab ad abu abiad.

A babbel men dub gulch of tears.

And he!

Who?

Old Joe, the Java Jane, older even than Adam Costollo.

The mar of murmury mermers to the mind’s ear, uncharted rock, evasive weed.

Only the caul knows his thousandfirst name, Hocus Crocus, Esquilocus, Finnfinn the Faineant.

Doth all this two way teleopic come aft to you, puritysnooper, as eft it were longtimes ofter when Potollomuck Sotyr or Sourdanapplous the Lollapaloosa put back Omega with the beths of alpability?

The charges are, you will remember; the chances are, you won’t.

We are recurrently meeting em, par Mahun Mesme, in cycloannalism, from space to space, time after time, in various phases of scripture as in various poses of sepulture.

Greets Godd, Groceries!

How feel full foes in furrinarr?

Merodach!

Defend the King!

Hoet of the rough throat attack but whose say is soft and whose ee has a cute angle, he whose hut is a hissarlik even as her hennin’s aspire.

And insodaintily she’s a quine of selmashaker while as a murder of corpse when his magot’s up he’s the best berrathon sanger in all the aisles of Skaldignavia.

As who shall hear.

For now at last is Longabed going to be gone to, that more than man, prince of Bunnicombe of wide roadsterds, the herblord the gillyflowrets so fain fan to flatter about.

Artho is the name is on the hero, Capellissato, shoehanded slaughterer of the shader of our leaves.

Attach him!

Hold!

Yet stir thee, to clay, Tamor!

Why wilt thou erewaken him from his earth, O summonorother?

He is weatherbitten from the dusts of ages.

The hour of his closing hies to hand; the tocsin that shall claxonise his wareabouts.

If one who remembered his webgoods and tealofts were to ask of any hooper for whose it was the storks were quitting Aquileyria, this trundler would not wot; if other who found faith when his depth charge bombed our barrel slipway were to—!

Jehosophat, what doom is here!

Rain ruth on them, sire!

The wing of Moykill cover him!

The Bulljon Bossbrute quarantee him!

Calavera, caution!

Slaves to Virtue, save his Veritotem!

Bearara Polearis, procul abeat!

The Ivorbonegorer of Danamaraca, be his Hector Protector!

Woldomar with Vasa, peel your peeps!

And try to saviourise the nights of labour to the order of our blooding worold!

While Pliny the Younger writes to Pliny the Elder his calamolumen of contumellas, what Aulus Gellius picked on Micmacrobius and what Vitruvius pocketed from Cassiodorus.

Like we larnt from that Buke of Lukan in Dublin’s capital, Kongdam Coombe.

Even if you are the kooper of the winkel itself, over measure never lost a licence.

Nor a duckindouche divulse from bath and breakfast.

And for the honour of Alcohol drop that you-know-what-I’ve-come-about-I-saw-your-act air!

Punch may be pottleproud but his Judy’s a wife’s wit better.

For the producer (Mr John Baptister Vickar) caused a deep abuliousness to descend upon the Father of Truants and, at a side issue, pluterpromptly brought on the scene the cutletsized consort, foundling filly of fortyshilling fostertailor and shipman’s shopahoyden, weighing ten pebble ten, scaling five footsy five, and spanning thirtyseven inchettes round the good companions, twentynine ditties round the wishful waistress, thirtyseven alsos round the answer to everything, twentythree of the same round each of the quis separabits, fourteen round the beginning of happiness and nicely nine round her shoed for slender.

And eher you could pray mercy to goodness or help with your hokey or mehokeypoo, Gallus’s hen has collared her pullets.

That’s where they have owreglias for.

Their bone of contention, flesh to their thorns, prest as Prestissima, makes off in a thinkling (and not one hen only nor two hens nayther but every blessed brigid came aclucking and aclacking), while, a rum a rum, the ram of all harns, Bier, Wijn and Spirituosen for consumption on the premises, advokaat withouten pleaders, Mas marrit, Pas poulit, Ras ruddist of all, though flamifestouned from galantifloures, is hued and cried of each’s colour.

Home all go.

Halome.

Blare no more ramsblares, oddmund barkes!

And cease your fumings, kindalled bushies!

And sherrygoldies, yeassyngnays; your wildeshaweshowe moves swiftly sterneward!

For here the holy language.

Soons to come.

To pausse.

’Tis goed.

Het best.

For they are now tearing, that is, teartoretorning.

Too soon are coming taskbooks and goody, hominy bread and bible bee with jaggery-yo and juju-jaw, Fine’s French phrases from the Grandmère des Grammaires and bothered parsenaps from the Four Massores, Mattatias, Marusias, Lucanias, Jokinias, and what happened to our eleven in thirtytwo antepostdating the Valgur Eire and why is limbo where is he and what are the sound waves saying that ceased ere they all wayed wrong and Amnist anguished axes Collis and where fishngaman fetched the mongafesh from and whatfor paddy-bird notplease rancoon and why was Sindat sitthing on his sitbom like a saildior, with what the doc did in the doil, not to mention define the hydraulics of common salt and, its denier crid of old provaunce, where G.P.O.

is zentrum and D.U.T.C.

are radients write down by the frequency of the scores and crores of your refractions the valuations in the pice of dinggyings on N.C.R.

and S.C.R.

That little cloud, a nibulissa, still hangs isky.

Singabed sulks before slumber.

Light at night has an alps on his druckhouse.

Thick bread and thin butter or after you with me.

Caspi, but gueroligue stings the air.

Gaylegs to riot of us!

Gallooks to lafft!

What is amaid today todo?

So angelland all weeping bin that Izzy most unhappy is.

Fain Essie, fie onhapje?

laughs her stella’s vispirine.

While, running about their ways, going and coming, now at rhimba rhomba, now in trippiza trappaza, pleating a pattern Gran Geamatron showed them of gracehoppers, auntskippers and coneyfarm leppers, they jeerilied along, durian gay and marian maidcap, lou Dariou beside la Marieto, all boy more all girl singoutfeller longa house blong store Huddy, whilest nin nin nin nin that Boorman’s clock, a winny on the tinny side, ninned nin nin nin nin, about old Father Barley, of how he got up of a morning arley and he met with a plattonem blondes named Hips and Haws and fell in with a foxy fellows of Trinity some headder Skowood Shaws like (You’ll catch it, don’t fret, Mrs Tummy Laptin!

Come indoor, Scoffynosey, and shed your swank!)

auld Daddy Deacon who could stow well his place of beacon but he never could hold his kerosene’s candle to (The nurse’ll give it to you, stickypots!

And you wait, my lasso, fecking the twine!)

bold Farmer Burleigh who wuck up in a hurly wurly where he huddly could wuddle to wallow his weg tilbag of the baker’s booth to beg of (You’re well held now, Missy Cheekspeer, and your panto’s off!

Fie, for shame, Ruth Wheatacre, after all the booz said!)

illed Diddiddy Achin for the prize of a pease of bakin with a pinch of the panch of the ponch in jurys for (Ah, crabeyes, I have you, showing off to the world with that gape in your stocking!)

wold Forrester Farley who, in deesperation of deispiration at the diasporation of his diesparation, was found of the round of the sound of the lound of the… Lukkedoerendunandurraskewdylooshoofermoyportertooryzooysphalna-bortansporthaokansakroidverjkapakkapuk.

Byfall.

Upploud!

The play thou schouwburgst, Game, here endeth.

The curtain drops by deep request.

Uplouderamain!

Gonn the gawds, Gunnar’s gustspells.

When the h, who the hu, how the hue, where the huer?

Orbiter onswers: lots lives lost.

Fionia is fed up with Fidge Fudgesons.

Sealand snorres.

Rendningrocks roguesreckning reigns.

Gwds with gnrs are gttrdmmrng.

Hlls vlls.

The timid hearts of words all exeomnosunt.

Mannagad, lammalelouh, how do that come?

By Dad, youd nat heed thet fert?

Fulgituder ejist rowdownan tonuout.

Qorq!

And buncskleydoodle!

Kidoosh!

Of their fear they broke, they ate wind, they fled; where they ate there they fled; of their fear they fled, they broke away.

Go to, let us extol Azrael with our harks, by our brews, on our jambses, in his gaits.

To Mezouzalem with the Dephilim, didits dinkun’s dud?

Yip!

Yup!

Yarrah!

And let Nek Nekulon extol Mak Makal and let him say unto him: Immi ammi Semmi.

And shall not Babel be with Lebab?

And he war.

And he shall open his mouth and answer: I hear, O Ismael, how thy laud is only as my loud is one.

If Nekulon shall be havonfalled surely Makal haven hevens.

Go to, let us extell Makal, yea, let us exceedingly extell.

Though you have lien amung your posspots my excellency is over Ismael.

Great is him whom is over Ismael and he shall mekanek of Mak Nakulon.

And he deed.

Uplouderamainagain!

For the Clearer of the Air from on high has spoken in tumbuldum tambaldam to his tembledim tombaldoom worrild and, moguphonoised by that phonemanon, the unhappitents of the earth have terrerumbled from firmament unto fundament and from tweedledeedumms down to twiddle-deedees.

Loud, hear us!

Loud, graciously hear us!

Now have thy children entered into their habitations.

And nationglad, camp meeting over, to shin it, Gov be thanked!

Thou hast closed the portals of the habitations of thy children and thou hast set thy guards thereby, even Garda Didymus and Garda Domas, that thy children may read in the book of the opening of the mind to thy light and err not in the darkness which is the afterthought of thy nomatter by the guardiance of those guards which are thy bodemen, the cheeryboyum chirryboth with the kerrybommers in their krubeems, Pray-your-Prayers Timothy and Back-to-Bunk Tom.

Till tree from tree, tree among trees, tree over tree become stone to stone, stone between stones, stone under stone for ever.

O Loud, hear the wee beseech of thees, of each of these thy unlitten ones!

Grant sleep in hour’s time, O Loud!

That they take no chill.

That they do ming no merder.

That they shall not gomeet madhowlattrees.

Loud, heap miseries upon us yet entwine our arts with laughters low!

Ha he hi ho hu.

Mummum.

As we there are where are we are we here haltagain.

By recourse, of course, recoursing from Tomtittot to Teetootomtotalitarian.

Tea tea too oo.

Under et ubi.

With his broad and hairy face, to Ireland a disgrace.

Whomtil comes over.

Who to caps ever.

And howelse do we hook our hike to find that pint of porter place?

Am shot, says the bigguard.1 Sic.

Whence.

Quick lunch, buy our lefts, wheel, to where.

Long Livius Lane, Menly about peebles.

mid Mezzofanti Mall, diagonising Lavatery Square, up Tycho Brahe Crescent,2 shouldering Berkeley’s Alley, querfixing Gainsborough Carfax, under Imaginable itinerary through the particular universal.

Dont retch meat fat salt lard sinks down (and out).

Guido d’Arezzo’s Gadeway, by New Livius Lane till where we whiled while we whithered.

Old Vico Roundpoint.

But fahr, be fear!

And natural, simple, slavish, filial.

The marriage of Montan wetting his moll, we know, like any enthewsyass cuckling a hoyden,3 in her rougey gipsylike chinkaminx’ pulsh-andjupeyjade and her petsybluse indecked o’ voylets.4 When who was wist was wan.

En elv, et fjaell.

And the whirr of the whins humming us howe.

His hume.

Hencetaking tides we haply return, trumpeted by prawns and ensigned with seakale, to befinding ourself when old is said in one and maker mates with made (O my!

), having conned the cones and meditated the mured and pondered the pensils and ogled the olymp and delighted in her Swiney Tod, ye Daimon Barbar!

dianaphous and cacchinated behind his culosses, afore a mosoleum, Length Withought Breath, of him, a chump of the evums, upshoot of picnic or stupor out of sopor, Cave of Kids or Hymanian Glattstonebury, denary, danery, Dig him in the rubsh!

donnery, domm,5 who, entiringly as he continues highlyfictional, tumulous Ungodly old Ardrey Cronwall beeswaxing the convulsion box.

under his chthonic exterior but plain Mr Tumulty in muftilife, in his antesipiences as in his recognisances, is (Dominic Directus) a manyfeast munificent more mob than man.

Ain soph,1 this upright one, with that noughty besighedhim zeroine?

To see in his horrorscup he is mehrkurios than saltz of sulphur.

Terror of the noonstruck by day, cryptogam of each nightly bridable.

But, to speak broken heaventalk, is he?

Who is he?


Whose is he?

Why is he?

