), in or aring or around about the year of buy in disgrace 1132 or 1169 or 1798 Y.W.C.A., at the Married Male Familyman’s Auctioneers’ court in Arrahnacuddle.

Poor Johnny of the clan of the Dougals, the poor Scuitsman (Hohannes!

), nothing if not amorous, dinna forget, so frightened (zweep!

zweep!)

on account of her fullbottom (undullable attraxity!

), that put the yearl of mercies on him, and the four maasters, in chors, with a hing behangd them, because he was so slow to borstel her schoon for her, when he was grooming her ladyship, instead of backscratching her materfamilias proper, like any old methodist, and all divorced and innasense interdict, in the middle of the temple, according to their dear faithful.

Ah, now, it was too bad, too bad and stout entirely, all the missoccurs!

And poor Mark or Marcus Bowandcoat, from the brownesberrow in nolandsland, the poor old chronometer, all persecuted with ally croaker by everybody he was, by decree absolute, through Herrinsilde, because he forgot himself, making wind and water, and made a Neptune’s mess of all of himself, sculling over the giamond’s courseway, and because he forgot to remembore to sign an old morning proxy paper, a writing in request to hersute herself, on stamped brownanoleum, from Roneo to Giliette, before saying his grace before fish and then and there and too there was poor Dion Cassius Poosycomb, all drowned too, poor Dion, before the world and her husband, because it was most improper and most wrong, when he attempted to (well, he was shocking poor in his health, he said, with the shingles falling off him), because he (ah, well now, peaces pea to Wedmore and let not the song go dumb upon your Ire, as we say in the Spasms of Davies, and we won’t be too hard on him as an old Manx presbyterian), and after that, as red as a Rosse is, he made his last will and went to confession, like the general of the Berkeleyites, at the rim of the rom, on his two bare marrowbones, to Her Worship his Mother and Sister Evangelist Sweainey, on Cailcainnin widnight and he was so sorry, he was really, because he left the bootybutton in the handsome cab and now, tell the truth, unfriends never (she was his first messes dogess and it was a very pretty peltry and there were faults on both sides), well, he attempted (or so they say), ah, now, forget and forgive (don’t we all?

), and, sure, he was only funning, with his andrewmartins and his old age coming over him, well, he attempted or, the Connachy, he was tempted to attempt some hunnish familiarities, after eten a bad cramp in the rude ocean and, hevantonoze, sure he was deadseasickabed (it was really too bad!

), her poor old divorced male, in the housepays for the daying at the Martyr Mrs MacCawley’s, where at the time he was taying, and toying to hold the nursetendered hand (ah, the poor old coax!)

and count the buttons and her hand and frown on a bad crab and doying to remembore what doed they were byorn and who made a who a snore.

Ah dearo dearo dear!

And where do you leave Matt Emeritus, the laychief of Abbotabishop?

And eschullard of ffrench and gherman.

Achoch!

They were all so sorgy for poorboir Matt, in his saltwater hat, with the Aran crown, or she grew that out of, too big for him, of Mnepos and his overalls, all falling over her in folds—sure, he hadn’t the heart in her to pull them up—poor Matt, the old peregrine matriarch, and a queenly man (the porple blussing upon them!

), sitting there, the sole of the settlement, below ground, for an expiatory rite, in postulation of his cause (who shall say?

), in her beaver bonnet, the crapoppely billycoque back from Presscoatts and Dyars, like the king of the Caucuses, a family all to himself, under geasa, Themistletocles, on his multilingual tombstone, like Navellicky Kamen, and she due to kid by sweetpea time, with her face to the wall, in view of the poorhouse, and taking his rust in the oxsight of Iren, under all the auspices, amid the rattle of hailstorms, kalospintheochromatokreening, with her ivyclad hood, and gripping an old pair of curling tongs, belonging to Mrs Duna O’Cannell, to blow his brains with, till the heights of Newhigherland heard the Bristolshut, with his can of tea and a purse of alfred cakes from Anne Lynch and two cuts of Shackleton’s brown loaf and dilisk, waiting for the end to come.

Gordon Heighland, when you think of it!

The merthe dirther!

Ah ho!

It was too bad entirely!

All devoured by active parlourmen, laudabiliter, of woman squelch and all on account of the smell of Shakeletin and Scratchman and his mouth watering, acid and alkolic, signs on the salt, and so now pass the loaf for Christ’ sake, Amen.

And so.

And all.

Matt.

And loaf.

So that was the end.

And it can’t be helped.

Ah, God be good to us!

Poor Andrew Martin Cunningham!

Take breath!

Ay, ay!

And still and all at that time of the dynast days of old konning Soteric Sulkinbored and Bargomuster Bart, when they struck coil and shock haunts, in old Hungerford-on-Mudway, where first I met thee oldpoetryck flied from may, and the Finnan haddies and the Noal Sharks and the muckstails turtles like an acoustic pottish and the griesouper bullyum and how he poled him up his boccat of vuotar and got big buzz for his name in the airweek’s honours from home, colonies and empire, they were always with assisting grace, thinking (up) and not forgetting about shims and shawls week, in auld lang syne (up) their four hosenbands, that were four (up) beautful sister misters, now happily married, unto old Gallstonebelly, and there they were always counting and contradicting every night ’tis early the lovely mother-of-periwinkle buttons, according to the lapper part of their anachronism (up one up two up one up four) and after that there now she was, in the end, the deary, soldpowder and all, the beautfour sisters, and that was her mudhen republican name, right enough, from alum and oves, and they used to be getting up from under, in their tape and straw garlands, with all the worries awake in their hair, at the kookaburra bell ringring all wrong inside of them (come in, come on, you lazy loafs!)

all inside their poor old Shandon bellbox (come out to hell, you lousy louts!)

so frightened, for the dthclangavore, like knockneeghs bumpsed by the fisterman’s straights (ys!

ys!

), at all hours every night, on their mistletoes, the four old oldsters, to see was the Transton Postscript come, with their oerkussens under their armsaxters, all puddled and mythified, the way the wind wheeled the schooler round, when nobody wouldn’t even let them rusten, from playing their gastspiels, crossing their sleep by the shocking silence, when they were in dreams of yore, standing behind the door, or leaning out of the chair, or kneeling under the sofacover and sitting on the souptureen, and then getting into their way something barbarous, changing the one wet underdown convibrational bed or they used to slumper under, when hope was there no more, and putting on their half a hat and falling over all synopticals and a panegyric and repeating themselves, like svvollovving stickers, like the time they were dadging the talkeycook that chased them, look all round the stool, walk everywhere for a jool, to break fyre toy all the rancers, to collect all and bits of brown, the rathure’s evelopmen in spirits of time in all fathom of space and slooping around in a bawneen and bath slippers and go away to Oldpatrick and see a doctor Walker.

And after that so glad they had their night tentacles and there they used to be, flapping and cycling, and a dooing a doonloop, panementically, around the waists of the ships, in the wake of their good old Foehn again, as tyred as they were, at their windswidths in the wavelengths, the clipperbuilt and the five fourmasters and Lally of the cleftoft bagoderts and Roe of the fair cheats, exchanging fleas, from host to host, with arthroposophia, and he selling him before he forgot, issle issle, after having prealably dephlegmatised his gutterful of throatyfrogs, with a lungible fong in his suckmouth ear, while the dear invoked to the coolun dare by a palpebrows lift left no doubt in his minder, till he was instant and he was trustin, sister soul in brother hand, the subjects being their passion grand, that one fresh from the cow about Eithne Meithne married a mailde and that one too from Engrvakar saga abooth a gooth a gev a gotheny egg all out of his oldy head and the parkside pranks of quality queens, katte efter kinne, for Earl Hoovedsoon’s choosing and Huber and Harman orhowwhen theeuponthus (chchch!)

eysolt of binnoculises memostinmust egotum sabcunsciously senses upers the deprofundity of multimathematical immaterialities wherebejubers in the pancosmic urge the allimmanence of that which Itself is Itself Alone (hear, O hear, Caller Errin!)

exteriorises on this ourherenow plane in disunited solod, likeward and gushious bodies with (science, say!)

perilwhitened passionpanting pugnoplangent intuitions of reunited selfdom (murky whey, abstrews adim!)

in the higherdiminsional selfless Allself, theemeeng Narsty meetheeng Idoless, and telling Jolly MacGolly, dear mester John, the belated dishevelled, hacking away at a parchment pie, and all the other analist, the steamships and the women-o’-war, and playing melia marmels in ocean ladies’ foursome, ovenfor, nedenfor, dinkety, duk, downalupping (how long tandem!)

like a foreretyred schoonmasters, and their pair of green eyes and peering in, so they say, like the narcolepts on the lakes of Coma, through the steamy windows, into the honeymoon cabins, on board the big steamadories, made by Fumadory, and the saloon ladies’ madorn toilet chambers lined over prawn silk and rub off the salty catara off a windows and, hee hee, listening, qua committee, the poor old quakers, oben the dure, to see all the hunnishmooners and the firstclass ladies, serious me, a lass spring as you fancy, and sheets far from the lad, courting in blankets, enfamillias, and, shee shee, all improper, in a lovely mourning toilet, for the rosecrumpler, the thrilldriver, the sighinspirer, with that olive throb in his nude neck, and, swayin and thayin, thanks ever so much for the tiny quote, which sought of maid everythingling again so very much more delightafellay, and the perfidly suite of her, bootyfilly yours, under all their familarities, by preventing grace, forgetting to say their grace before chambadory, before going to boat with the verges of the chaptel of the opering of the month of Nema-Knatut, so pass the poghue for grace sake, Amen.

And all, hee hee hee, quaking, so fright, and, shee shee, shaking.

Aching.

Ay, ay.

For it was then a pretty thing happened of pure diversion mayhap, when her flattering hend, at the justright moment, like perchance some cook of corage might clip the lad on a poot of porage, handshut his duckhouse, the vivid girl, deaf with love (ah sure, you know her, our angel being, one of romance’s fadeless wonderwomen, and, sure now, we all know you dote on her even unto date!

), with a queeleetlecree of joysis crisis she renulited their disunited, with ripy lepes to ropy lopes (the dear o’dears!)

and the golden importunity of aloofer’s leavetime, when, as quick as greased pigskin, Amoricas Champias, with one aragan throast, druve the massive of virilvigtoury flshpst the bothlines of forwards (Eburnea’s down, boys!)

rightjingbangshot into the goal of her gullet.

Alris!

And now, upright and add them!

And plays be honest!

And pullit into yourself, as on manowoman do another!

Candidately, everybody!

A mot for amot.

Comong, meng, and douh!

There was this, wellyoumaycallher, a strapping fine young modern old ancient Irish prisscess, so and so hands high, such and such paddock weight, in her madapolam smock, nothing under her hat but red hair and solid ivory (now you know it’s true in your hardup hearts!)

and a firstclass pair of bedroom eyes of most unholy blue (how weak we are, one and all!

), the charm of favour’s fond consent!

Could you blame her, we’re saying, for one psocoldlogical moment?

What would Ewe do?

With that so tiresome old milkless a ram, with his tiresome duty peck and his bronchial tubes, the tiresome old hairyg orangogran beaver, in his tiresome old twentysixandsixpenny sheopards plods drowsers and his thirtybobandninepenny tails plus toop!

Hagakhroustioun!

It were too exceeding really if one woulds to offer at sulk an oldivirdual a pinge of hinge hit.

The mainest thing ever!

Since Edem was in the boays noavy.

No, no, the dear heaven knows, and the farther the from it, if the whole stole stale misbetold, whoever the gulpable, and whatever the pulpous was, the twooned togethered, and giving the mhost phassionable wheathers, they were doing a lally a lolly a dither a duther one lelly two dather three lilly four dother.

And it was a fiveful moment for the poor old timetellers ticktacking, to tenk the count.

Till the spark that plugged spared the chokee he gripped and (volatile volupty, how brieved are thy lunguings!)

they could and they could hear like of a lisp lapsing, that was her knight of the Truths Thong plipping out of her chapellledeosy, after where he had gone and polped the questioned.

Plop.

Ah now, it was tootwoly torrific, the mummurrlubejubes!

And then after that they used to be so forgetful, counting motherpeributts (up one up four) to membore her beaufu mouldern maiden name, for overflauwing, by the dream of woman the owneirist, in forty lands.

From Greg and Doug on poor Greg and Mat and Mar and Lu and Jo, now happily buried, our four sisters.

And there she was now right enough, that lovely sight enough, the girleen bawn asthore, as for days galore, of planxty Gregory.

Egory.

O bunket not Orwin!

Ay, ay.

But, sure, that reminds me now, like another tellmastory repeating yourself, how they used to be in lethargy’s love, at the end of it all, at that time (up) always, tired and all, after doing the mousework and making it up, over their community singing (up) the toploft of the voicebox of Mamalujo, like the senior follies at murther magrees, squatting round, two by two, the four confederates, with Caxon, the Coxswain, (up) the wet air register in Old Man’s House, Millenium Road, crowning themselves in lauraly branches, with their cold knees and their poor (up) quadrupeds, fast ovasleep, and all dolled up, for their blankets and materny mufflers and plimsoles and their bowl of brown schackle and milky and boterham clots, a potion apeace, a piece aportion, a lepel alip, alup a lap, for a cup of kindest yet, with hold take hand and nurse and only touch of ate, a lovely munkybown and for xmell and wait the pinch and prompt poor Mucus Lyons to be not beheeding the skillet on for the live of ghosses but to pass the teeth for choke sake, Amensch, when it so happen they were all sicamore and by the world forgot, since the phlegmish hoopicough, for all a possabed, after ete a bad cramp and johnny magories, and backscrat the poor bedsores and the farthing dip, their caschal pandle of magmegnousioum, and read a letter or two every night, before going to dodo sleep atrance, with their catkins coifs, in the twilight, a capitaletter, for further auspices, on their old one page codex book of old year’s eve 1132, M.M.L.J.

old style, their Senchus Mor, by his fellow girl, the Mrs Shemans, in her summerseal house onsample, with the caracul broadtail, her totam in tutu, final buff noonmeal edition, in the regatta covers, uptenable from the orther, for to regul their reves by incubation, and Lally, through their gangrene spentacles, and all the good or they did in their time, the rigorists, for Roe and O’Mulconry a Conry ap Mul or Lap ap Morion and Buffler ap Matty MacGregory for Marcus on Podex by Daddy de Wyer, old bagabroth, beeves and scullogues, churls and vassals, in same, sept and severalty, and one by one and sing a mamalujo.

To the heroest champion of Eren and his braceoleanders and Gowan, Gawin and Gonne.

And after that now in the future, please God, after nonpenal death, all start repeating ourselves, in medios loquos, from where he got a useful arm busy on the touchline, due south of her western shoulder, down to death and the love embrace, with an interesting tallow complexion and all now united, sansfamillias, let us ran on to say oremus prayer and homeysweet homely, after fully realising the gratifying experience of highly continental evenements, for meter and peter to temple an eslaap, for auld acquaintance, to Peregrine and Michael and Farfassa and Peregrine, for navigants et peregrinantibus, in all the old imperial and Fionnachan sea and for vogue awallow to sing a lovasteamadorion to Ladyseyes, here’s Tricks and Doelsy, delightfully ours, in her doaty ducky little blue and roll his hoop and how she ran, when wit won free, the dimply blissed and awfully bucked, right glad we never shall forget, Miss Yiss, you fascinator, you, thoh the dayses gone still they loves young dreams, and old Luke with his kingly leer, so wellworth watching, and Senchus Mor, possessed of evident notoriety, and another more of the bigtimers, to name no others, of whom great things were expected in the fulmfilming department, for the lives of Lazarus and auld luke syne and she haihaihail her kobbor kohinor sehehet on the praze savohohole Shanghai.

Hear, O hear, Iseult la belle!

Tristan, sad hero, hear!

The Lambeg drum, the Lombog reed, the Lumbag fiferer, the Limbig brazenaze!

Anno Domini nostri sancti Jesu Christi Nine hundred and ninetynine million pound sterling in the blueblack bowels of the bank of Ulster.

Braw bawbees and good gold pounds galore, my girleen, a Sunday’ll prank thee finely And no damn lout’ll come courting thee or by the mother of the Holy Ghost there’ll be murder!

O, come all ye sweet nymphs of Dingle beach to cheer Brinabride queen from Sybil surfriding In her curragh of shells of daughter of pearl and her silverymoonblue mantle round her.

Crown of the waters, brine on her brow, she’ll dance them a jig and jilt them fairly.

Yerra, why would she bide with Sir Sloomysides or the grogram grey barnacle gander?

You won’t need be lonesome, Lizzy my love, when your beau gets his glut of cold meat and hot soldiering Nor wake in winter, widow machree, but snore snug in my old Balbriggan surtout.

Wisha, won’t you agree now to take me from the middle, say, of next week on, for the balance of my days, for nothing (what?)

as your own nursetender?

A power of highsteppers died game right enough—but who, acushla, ’ll beg coppers for you?

I tossed that one long before anyone.

It was of a wet good Friday too she was ironing and, as I’m given now to understand, she was always mad gone on me.

Grand goosegreasing we had entirely with an allnight eiderdown bed picnic to follow.

By the cross of Cong, says she, rising up Saturday in the twilight from under me, Mick, Nick, or whatever the Maggot your name is, you’re the most likable lad that’s come my ways yet from the barony of Bohermore.

Mattheehew, Markeehew, Lukeehew, Johnheehewheehew!

Haw!

And still a light moves long the river.

And stiller the mermen ply their keg.

Its pith is full.

The way is free.

Their lot is cast.

So, to john for a john, johnajeams, led it be!

III   Hark!

Tolv two elf kater ten (it can’t be) sax.

Hork!

Pedwar pemp foify tray (it must be) twelve!

And low stole o’er the stillness the heartbeats of sleep.

White fogbow spans.

The arch embattled.

Mark has capsules.

The nose of the man who was nought like the nasoes.

It is selftinted, wrinkling, ruddled.

His kep is a gorsecone.

He am Gascon Titubante of Tegmine-sub-Fagi whose fixtures are mobiling so wobiling befear my remembrandts.

She, exhibit next, his Anastashie.

She has prayings in lowdelph.

Zeehere green eggbrooms.

What named blautoothdmand is yon who stares?

Gugurtha!

Gugurtha!

He has becco of wild hindigan.

Ho, he hath hornhide!

And hvis now is for you.

Pensée!

The most beautiful of woman of the veilch veilchen veilde.

She would kidds to my voult of my palace with obscidian lupas, her aal in her dhove’s suckling.

Apagemonite!

Come not nere!

Black!

Switch out!

Methought as I was dropping asleep somepart in nonland of where’s please (and it was when you and they were we) I heard at zero hour as ’twere the peal of vixen’s laughter among midnight’s chimes from out the belfry of the cute old speckled church tolling so faint a goodmantrue as nighthood’s unseen violet rendered all animated greatbritish and Irish objects nonviewable to human watchers save ’twere perchance anon some glistery gleam darkling adown surface of affluvial flowandflow as again might seem garments of laundry reposing a leasward close at hand in full expectation.

And as I was jogging along in a dream as dozing I was dawdling, arrah, methought broadtone was heard and the creepers and the gliders and the flivvers of the earthbreath and the dancetongues of the woodfires and the hummers in their ground all vociferated, echoating, Shaun!

Shaun!

Post the post!

with a high voice and, O, the higher on high the deeper and low.

I heard him so!

And lo, meseemed somewhat came of the noise and some-who might amove among allmurk.

Now ’twas as clump, now mayhap.

When, look, was light and now ’twas as flasher, now moren as the glaow.

Ah, in unlitness ’twas in very similitude, bless me, ’twas his belted lamp!

Whom we dreamt was a shaddo, sure he’s lightseyes, the laddo!

Blessed momence, O romence, he’s growing to stay!

Ay, he who so swayed a will of a wisp before me, hand prop to hand, prompt side to the pros, dressed like an earl in just the correct wear, in a classy mac Frieze o’coat of far suparior ruggedness, indigo braw, tracked and tramped, freeswinging from his shoulthern, and an Irish ferrier collar, and thick welted brogues on him with mereswine lacers hammered to suit the scotsmost public and climate, iron heels and sparable soles, and his jacket of providence wellprovided woollies with a softrolling lisp of a lapel to it and great sealingwax buttons, a good helping bigger than the slots for them, of twentytwo carrot krasnapoppsky’s red, and his invulnerable burlap whiskcoat and his popular choker, Tamagnum sette-and-forte, and his loudboheem toy and the damasker’s overshirt he sported inside, a starspangled zephyr with a decidedly surpliced crinklydoodle front with his motto through dear life embrothered over it in peas, rice and yeggyyolk, Or for royal, Am for Mail, R.M.D.

hard cash on the nail, and the most successfully carried gigot turnups now you ever (what a pairfact crease!

how amsolookly kersse!)

breaking over the ankle and hugging the shoeheel, everything the best, was none other from (ah, then, may the turtle’s blessings of God and Mary and Haggispatrick and Huggisbrigid be souptumbling all over him!)

other than (and may his hundred thousand welcome stewed letters, relayed and postchased, multiply, ay, faith, and plultiply!)

Shaun himself.

What a picture primitive!

Had I the concordant wiseheads of Messrs Gregory and Lyons alongside of Dr Tarpey’s and, I dorsay, the reverend Mr MacDougall’s, but I, poor ass, am but as their fourpart tinckler’s dunkey.

Yet methought Shaun (holy messenger angels be uninterruptedly nudging him among and along the winding ways of random ever!)

Shaun in proper person (now may all the blue-backsliding constellations continue to shape his changeable timetable!)

stood before me.

And I pledge you my agricultural word, by the hundred and sixty odds rods and cones of this even’s vision, that young fellow looked the stuff, the Bel of Beaus’ Walk, a prime card if ever was!

Pep?

Now without deceit it is hardly too much to say he was looking grand, so fired smart, in much more than his usual health.

No mistaking that beamish brow, those jehovial oyeglances!

The heart of the roll!

And hit the hencoop.

There was one for you that ne’er would nunch with good Duke Humphrey but would aight through the months without a sign of an err in hem and then, otherwise rounding, fourale to the lees of Traroe.

He was immense, topping swell, for he was after having a great time of it, a twentyfour hours every moment matters maltsight, in a porterhouse, scutfrank, if you want to know, Saint Lawzenge of Toole’s, the Wheel of Fortune, leave your clubs in the hall and wait on yourself, no chucks for walnut ketchups, Lazenby’s and Chutney graspis (the house the once queen of Bristol and Balrothery twice admired because her frumped door looked up Dacent Street), where in the sighed of lovely eyes, while his knives of hearts made havoc, he had recruited his strength by meals of spadefuls of mounded food, in anticipation of the faste of tablenapkins, constituting his threepartite pranzipal eatings plus a collation, his breakfast of, first, a bless us O blood and thirsthy orange, next, the half of a pint of bacon with newled googs and a segment of a rice plummy padding, met of sunder suigar, and some cold forsoaken steak peatrefired from the batblack night o’erflown, then, without prejuice to evectuals, came along merendally his stockpot dinner of a half a pound of round steak, very rare, Blong’s best from Portarlington’s Butchery, with a side of riceypeasy and Corkshire alla mellonge and bacon with (a little mar pliche!)

a pair of chops and, thrown in from the silver grid by the proprietoress of the roastery who lives on a hill, and gaulusch gravy and pumpernickel to wolp up and a gorger’s bulby onion (Margareatar, Margareatar, Margarasticandeatar) and as well with second course and then, finally, after his avalunch o’clock snack at Appelredt’s or Kitzy Broten’s of saddlebag steak and a Botherhim with her old phoenix porter, jistr to gwen his gwistell, and praties sweet and Irish too and mock gurgle to whistle his way through for the swallying, swp by swp, and he getting his tongue around it and Boland’s broth broken into the bargain, to his regret his soupay avic nightcap, vitellusit, a carusal consistent with second course and eyers and bacon (the rich of) with broad beans, hig, steak, hag, pepper, the diamond bone, hotted up timmtomm and while ’twas after that he scoffed a drakeling snuggily stuffed following cold loin of veal more cabbage and, in their green free state, a clister of peas, suppositorily petty, last.

P.S.

But a fingerhot of rhein genever to give the Pax cum Spiritututu.

Drily thankful.

Burud and dulse and typureely jam, all free of charge, aman, and.

And the best of wine avec.

For his heart was as big as himself, so it was, ay, and bigger!

While the loaves are aflowering and the nachtingale jugs.

All St Jilian’s of Berry, hurrah there for tobies!

Mavrodaphne, brown pride of our custard house quay, amiable with repastful, cheer us, graciously cheer us!

Ever of thee, Anne Lynch, he’s deeply draiming!

Houseanna!

Tea is the Highest!

For auld lang Ayternitay!

Thus thicker will he grow now, grew new.

And better and better on butter and butter.

At the sign of Mesthress Vanhungrig.

However!

Mind you, nuckling down to nourritures, were they menuly some ham and jaffas, and I don’t mean to make the ingestion for the moment that he was guilbey of gulpable gluttony as regards chewable boltaballs, but, biestings be biestings, and upon the whole, when not off his oats, given prelove appetite and postlove pricing, goodcoup, goodcheap, were it thermidor oogst or floreal may while the whistling prairial roysters play, between gormandising and gourmeteering he grubbed his tuck all right, deah smorregos, every time he was for doing dirt to a meal or felt like a bottle of ardilaun alongwith a smag of a lecker biss of a welldressed taart or.

Though his net intrants wight weighed nought but a flyblow to his gross and ganz exit’s afterduepoise.

And he was so jarvey jaunty with a romp of a schoolgirl’s completion sitting pretty over his Oyster Monday printface and he was plainly out on the ramp and mash, as you might say, for he sproke.

Overture and beginners!

When lo (whish, O whish!)

mesaw mestreamed, as the green to the grid was flew, was flown, through deafths of durkness greengrown deeper I heard a voice, the voce of Shaun, vote of the Irish, voice from afar (and, cert, no purer puer palestrine e’er chanted Panis Angelicus mid the clouds of Tu es Petrus, not Michaeleen Kelly, not Mara O’Mario, and, sure, what more numerose Italicuss ever rawsucked frish uov in urinal?

), a brieze to Yverzone o’er the brozaozaozing sea, from Inchigeela call the way how it suspired (morepork!

morepork!)

to scented nightlife as softly as the loftly marconimasts from Clifden sough open tireless secrets (mauveport!

mauveport!)

to Nova Scotia’s listing sisterwands.

Tubetube!

His handpalm lifted, his handshell cupped, his handsign pointed, his handheart mated, his handaxe risen, his handleaf fallen.

Helpsome hand that halemost heals!

What is het holy!

