— And crazyheaded Jorn, the bulweh born?

— Fluteful as his orkan.

Ex ugola lenonem.

— And Jambs, of Delphin’s Bourne or (as olders lay) of Tophat?

— Dawncing the kniejinksky choreopiscopally like an easter sun round the colander, the Vice!

Taranta boontoday!

You should pree him prance the polcat, you should whiff him wops around, you should hear his piedigrotts schraying as his skimpies skirp a … — Crashedafar Corumbas!

A Czardanser indeed!

Dervilish glad too.

Ortovito semi ricordo.

The pantaglionic affection through his blood like a bad influenza in a leap at bounding point?

— Out of Prisky Poppagenua, the palsied old priamite, home from Edwin Hamilton’s Christmas pantaloonade, Oropos Roxy and Pantharhea, at the Gaiety, trippudiating round the aria, with his fiftytwo heirs of age!

They may reel at his likes but it’s Noeh Bonum’s shin do.

— And whit what was Lillabil Issabil, maideve, maid, at?

— Trists and thranes and trinies and traines.

— A takeback to the virgin page, darm it!

— Ay, graunt ye.

— The quobus quartet were there too, if I mistake not, as a sideline but, pace the contempt of senate, well to the fore, in an amnessy meeting, metandmorefussed to decide whereagainwhen to meet themselves, flopsome and jerksome, lubber and deliric, drinking unsteadily through the Kerry quadrilles and Listowel lancers and mastersinging always with that consecutive fifth of theirs, eh?

Like four wise elephants inandouting under a twelvepodestalled table?

— You’ve said it!

They were simple scandalmongers, that familiar, and all!

Normand, Desmond, Osmund and Kenneth.

Making mejical history all over the show!

— In sum, some hum?

And other marrage feats?

— All our statues they were astumbling round the rauky roars assumbling when Big Arthur flugged the field at Annie’s courting.

— Suddenly some wellfired clay was cast out through the schaapsteckers of hoy’s house?

— Schottenly there was a hellfire club kicked out through the wasistas of Thereswhere.

— Like Heavystost’s envil catacalamitumbling.

Three days three times into the Vulcuum?

— Punch!

— Or Noe et Ecclesiastes, nonne?

— Ninny, there is no hay in Eccles’s hostel.

— Yet an I saw a sign of him, if you could scrape out his acquinntence.

Name or redress him and we’ll call it a night!

— .

i .

.’.

.

o .

.

l. — You are sure it was not a shuler’s shakeup or a plighter’s palming or a winker’s wake etcaetera etcaeterorum you were at?

— Precisely.

— Mayhap.

Hora pro Nubis, Thundersday, at A Little Bit Of Heaven, Howth, the wife of Deimetuus (D’amn), Earl Adam Fitzadam, of a Tartar (Birtha) or Sackville-Lawry and Morland-West, at the Auspice for the Living, Bonnybrook, by the river, and A. Briggs Carlisle, guardian of the birdsmaids and deputiliser for groom.

Pontifical mess.

Or (soddenly) Schott, furtivfired by the riots.

No flies.

Agreest?

— Mayhem.

Also loans through the post.

With or without security.

Everywhere.

Any amount.

Mofsovitz, swampstakers, purely providential.

— Flood’s.

The pinkman, the squeeze, the pint with the kick.

Gaa.

And then the punch to Gaelicise it.

Fox.

The lady with the lamp.

The boy in the barleybag.

The old man on his ars.

Great Scrapp!

’Tis we and you and ye and me and hymns and hurts and heels and shields.

The eirest race, the ourest nation, the airest place that erestationed.

He was culping for penance while you were ringing his belle.

Did the kickee, Goodman Rued Fox, say anything important?

Clam or cram, spick or spat?

— No more than Richman’s periwhelker.

— Nnn ttt wrd?

— Dmn ttt thg.

— A gael galled by scheme of scorn?

Nock?

— Sangnifying nothing.

Mock!

— Fortitudo eius rhodammum tenuit?

— Five maim!

Or something very similar.

— I should like to euphonise that.

It sounds an isochronism, secret speech Hazelton and obviously disemvowelled.

But it is good laylaw too.

We may take those wellmeant kicks for free granted, though ultra vires, void and, in fact, unnecessarily so.

Happily you were not quite so successful in the process verbal whereby you would sublimate your blepharospasmockical suppressions, it seems?

— What was that?

First I heard about it.

— Were you or were you not?

Ask yourself the answer.

I’m not giving you a short question.

— Quite so.

— Now, not to mix up, cast your eyes around Capel Court.

I want you, witness of this epic struggle, as yours so mine, to reconstruct for us as briefly as you can, inexactly the same as a mind’s eye view, how these funeral games, which have been poring over us through homer’s kerryer pidgeons, massacreedoed as the holiname rally round, took place.

— Which?

Sure I told you that afoul.

I was drunk all lost life.

— Well, tell it to me befair, the whole plan of campaign, in that bamboozelem mincethrill voice of yours.

Let’s have it, christie!

The Dublin own, the thrice familiar.

— Ah, sure, I eyewitless foggus.

’Tis all round me bebattersbid hat.

— Ah, go on now, Masta Bones, a gig for a gag, with your impendiments and your perroqtriques!

Blank memory of hatless darky in blued suit.

You were ever the gentle poet, dove from Haywarden.

Pitcher cup, patcher cap, pratey man!

Be nice about it, Bones Minor!

Look chairful!

Come, delicacy!

Go to the end, thou slackard!

Once upon a grass and a hopping high grass it was.

— Faith, then, Meesta Cheeryman, first he come up, a gag as a gig, Badgeler’s rake to the town’s major from the wesz, MacSmashall Swingy of the Cattelaxes, got up regardless, with a cock on the Kildare side of his Tattersall, in his riddlesneek’s ragamufflers and the horrid contrivance as seen above, whisklyng into a bone tolerably delicately the Wearing of the Blue and dragging his feet in the usual course and was ever so terribly naas, really, taking off his plushkwadded bugsby in his perusual flea and loisy manner, saying good mrowkas to weevilybolly and telling him clean his nagles, Miles, and fox himself up, Cogan, and so on and so fort and to take the coocoomb to his grizzlies and who done that foxy freak on his bear’s hairs like fire bursting out of the Ump pyre and half hang me, sirr, if he wasn’t wanting his calicub body back before he’d to take his life or so save his life.

Then, begor, counting as many as eleven to thirtytwo seconds with his pocket browning, like I said, wann swanns wann, this is my awethorrorty, he kept forecursing Hasculph, foul Fanden, and ravin for the coacoackey of John Dunn’s field fore it war for sent and the way Montague was robbed and wolfling to know all what went off and who burned the hay, perchance thou’llt say, before he’d kill all the Kanes, and the price of Patsch Purcell’s faketotem, which the man, his plantagonist up from the bog of the depths, who was raging with the thirst of the sacred sponge and who, as a mashter of pasht, so far as him was concerned, was only standing there nonplush to the corner of Turbot Street, perplexing about a paumpshop and pupparing to spit, wanting to know whelp the henconvention’s compuss memphis he wanted with him, knew nothing about.

— A sarsencruxer, moor and burgess medley like the Nap O’Farrell Patter Tandy offensive-defensive?

In other words, was that how in the annusual curse of things, as complement to compliment, though after a manner of men which I must and will say seems extraordinary, their celicolar subtler angelic warfare or photoplay finisterr started?

— Truly.

That I may never!

— Did one scum in the auradrama, the deff, after some clever play in the mud, then mention sleeply to the other undesirable, a dumm, during diverse intertidal instants upon the resume after the angerus, that for his deal he was a pigheaded Swede and to wend himself to a medicins?

— To be sore he did, the huggornut!

Only it was turniphudded dunce, I beg your pardon, and he would jokes bowlderblow the beltholder with his black masket off the bawling Green.

— Sublime was the warning!

— The aurthor, in fact, was mordred.

— Did he, the first spikesman, do anything to him, the last spokesman, when, after heaving some more smutt and chaff between them, they rolled togutter into the ditch together?

Black Pig’s Dyke?

— No, he had his teeth in the back of his head.

— Did Box then try to shine his puss?

— No, but Cox did to shin the punman.

— The worsted crying that if never he looked on Lord Leverhulme’s again and the bester huing that he might ever save sunlife?

— Truly.

Asbestos he ever.

And sowasso I never.

— That forte Carlysle touch breaking the Campden’s pianoback.

— Pansh!

— Are you of my meaning that would be going on to about half noon click o’clock, pip emma, Grinwicker time, by your querqcut quadrant?

— You will be asking me and I wish to Higgins you wouldn’t.

Would it?

— Let it be twelve thirty after a somerswatch of the tardest?

— And it was eleven thirsty too befour in a sowandsuch, reloy on it!

— Tick up on time.

How day you doom?

That rising day sinks rosing in a night of nine weeks’ wonder.

— Amities, mercy buckup!

The uneventh day of the unleventh month of the unevented year.

At mart in mass.

— A triduum before Our Larry’s own day.

By which of your chronos, my man of four watches?

Larboard, starboard, dog, or death?

— Dunsink, rugby, ballast, and ball.

You can imagine!

— Language this allsfare for the loathe of Mauses ambiviolent about it.

Will you swear all the same you saw their shadows a hundred foot later, struggling diabolically over this, that and the other, their virtues pro and his principality con, near The Ruins, Drogheda Street, and kicking up the devil’s own dust for the Milesian wind?

— I will.

I did.

They were.

I swear.

Like the heavenly militia.

So wreek me Ghyllygully!

With my tongue through my toecap on the headlong stone of kismet if so ’tis the will of Whose B. Dunn.

— Weeping Lorcans!

They must have put in some wonderful work, ecad, on the quiet like, during this arms’ parley, meatierites forces vegatearians.

Dost thou not think so?

— Ay.

— The illegal-looking range or fender, alias turfing iron, a product of Hostages and Co, Engineers, changed feet several times as briars revalvered during the weaponswap?

Piff?

— Puff!

Excuse yourself.

It was an ersatz lottheringcan.

— They did not know the war was over and were only berebelling or bereppelling one another by chance or necessity with sham bottles, mere and woiney, like their caractacurs in an Irish Ruman, as betwinst Picturshirts and Scutticules, to sorrowbrate the expeltsion of the Danos?

What sayest thou, scusascmerul?

— That’s all.

For he was heavily upright man.

Limba romena in Bucclis tucsada.

Farcing gutterish.

— I mean the Morgans and the Dorans, in finnish.

— I know you don’t.

In Feeney’s.

— The mujic of the footure on the barbarihams of the bashed?

Co Canniley?

— Da Donnuley.

— In voina viritas, neat wahr?

— O bella!

O pia!

O pura!

Amem.

— Yet this war has meed peace?

Ab chaos lex?

— Handwalled amokst us.

Thanksbeer to Balbus!

— All the same you sound it ’twould clang howlish like Hull hopen for Christmians?

— But ’twill cling hellish like engels opened to neuropeans, if you’ve sensed whole the sum.

So be vigil!

— And this pattern pootsch punnermine of concoon and proprey went on, hog and minne, a whole whake, your night after larry’s night, spittin-spite on Dora O’Huggins, ormonde caught butler, the artillery of the O’Hefferns answering the cavalry of the MacClouds, fortey and more fortey, a thousand and one times, according to your cock and a biddy story?

Lludi llongi, for years and years perhaps?

— That’s ri.

This is his largos life, this is me timtomtum, and this is her two peekweeny ones.

From the last finger on the second foot of the fourth man to the first one on the last one of the first.

That’s right.

— Finny.

Vary vary finny!

— It may look funny but fere it is.

— Stadyon there!

This is not guid enough, Mr Brasslattin.

