that eyriewinging one?)

and the voids bubbily vode’s dodos across the which the boomomouths from their dupest dupes were in envery and anononously blowing great.

Guns.

Keep backwards, please, because there was no good to gundy running up again.

Guns.

And it was written up in big capital.

Guns.

Saying never underrupt greatgrandgosterfosters!

Guns.

And whatever one did they said, the fourlings, that on noahcounts you were not to.

Guns.

Not to pad them behaunt in the fear.

Not to go, tonnerwatter, and bungley well chute the rishing gianerant.

Not to wandly be woking around jerumsalendo at small hours about the murketplots, smelling okey boney, this little figgy and arraky belloky this little pink into porker but, porkodirto, to let the gentleman pedestarolies out of the Monabella culculpuration live his own left leave, cullebuone, by perperusual of the petpubblicities without inwoking his also’s between (sic) the arraky bone and (suc) the okey bellock.

And not to not be always, hemmer and hummer, treeing unselves up with one exite but not to never be caving nicely, precisely, quicely, rebustly, tendrolly, unremarkably, forsakenly, haltedly, reputedly, firstly, somewhatly yesayenolly about the back excits.

Never to weaken up in placed of the broths.

Never to vvollusslleepp in the pleece of the poots.

And, allerthings, never to ate the sour deans if they weren’t having anysin on their consients.

And, when in Zumschloss, to never, narks, cease till the finely ending was consummated by the completion of accomplishment.

And thus within the tavern’s secret booth The wisehight ones who sip the tested sooth Bestir them as the Just has bid to jab The punch of quaram on the mug of truth.

K.C.

jowls, they’re sodden in the secret.

K.C.

jowls, they sure are wise.

K.C.

jowls, the justicest jobbers, for they’ll find another faller if their ruse won’t rise.

Whooley the Whooper.

There is to see.

Squarish large face with the atlas jacket, brights brownie eyes in bluesackin shoeings.

Peaky booky nose over a lousiany shirt.

Ruddy stackle hair besides a strawcamel belt.

Namely.

Gregorovitch, Leonocopolos, Tarpinacci and Duggelduggel.

And was theys stare all atime?

Yea but they was.

Andoring the games, induring the studies, undaring the stories, end all.

Ned?

Only snugged then and cosied after one percepted nought while tuffbettle outraged the waywords and meansigns of their hinterhand suppliesdemands.

And be they gone to splane splication?

That host that hast one on the hoose when backturns when he facefronts none none in the house his geust has guest.

You bet they is.

And nose well down.

With however what sublation of compensation in the radification of interpretation by the byeboys?

Being they.

Mr G. B. D. Ashburner, S. Bruno’s Toboggan Drive, Mr Faixgood Bellchimbers, Carolan Crescent, Mr J. J. Chattaway, Hilly Gape, Poplar Park, Mr Q. P. Dieudonney, The View, Gazey Peer, Mr T. T. Erchdeakin, Multiple Lodge, Jiff Exby Rode, Mr W. K. Ferris-Fender, Fert Fort, Woovil Doon Botham ontowhom adding the tout that pumped the stout that linked the lank that sold the sandy that nextdoored the rotter that rooked the rhymer that lapped at the hoose that Joax pilled.

They had heard or had heard said or had heard said written.

Fidelisat.

That there first a rudrik kingcomed to an inn court; and the seight of that yard was a perchypole with a loovahgloovah on it; last mannarks maketh man when wandshift winneth womans: so how would it hum, whoson of a which, if someof aswas to start to stunt the story on?

So many needles to ponk out to as many noodles as are company, they noddling all about it tutti to tempo, decumans numbered too, (a) well, that the secretary bird, better known as Pandoria Paullabucca, whom they thought was more like a solicitor general, indiscriminatingly made belief mid authorsuggestions from Schelm the Pelman to write somewords to Senders about her chilikin puck, laughing that Poulebec would be the death of her, (b) that, well, that Madges Tighe, the postulate auditressee, when her daremood’s a grownian, is always on the who goes where, hoping to Michael for the latter to turn up with a cupital tea before her ephumeral comes off without any much father which is parting parcel of the same gourneral’s postoppage, it being lookwhyse on the whence blows wheather, helping mickle to mickle so that the loiter end of that leader may twaddle out after a cubital lull with a hopes soon to ear, comprong?

(c) becakes the goatsman on question, or whatever the hen the bumbler was, feeling not up to scratch bekicks of whatever the kiddings Payne Inge and Popper meant for him, thoughy onced at a throughlove, true grievingfrue danger, as a nirshe persent to his minstress, devourced the pair of them Mather Caray’s chucklings, pante blanche, and skittered his litters like the cavaliery man in Cobra Park for ungeborn yenkelmen, Jeremy Trouvers or Kefin O’Keepers, any old howe and any old then and when around Dix Dearthy Dungbin, remarking scenically with laddylike lassitude upon what he finally postscrapped, (d) after it’s so long till I thanked you but I do so much now thank you so very much as you introduced me to forks.

(e) will, these remind to be sane?

(f) Fool, step!

Aletheometry?

Or just zoot doon floon?

Nut it out, peeby eye!

Onamassofmancynaves.

But.

Top.

You were in that same boat of yourselves too, Getobodoff or Treamplasurin; and you receptionated the most diliskious of milisk; which it all flowowered your drooplin dunlearies: but dribble a drob went down your rothole.

Meaning Kelly, Grimes, Phelan, Mullanny, O’Brien, MacAlister, Sealy, Coyle, Hynes-Foynes, Naylor-Traynor, Courcy de Courcy and Gilligan-Goll.

Stunner of oddstodds on bluebleeding boarhorse!

What soresen’s head subrises thustous out of rumpumplikum oak with, well, we cannot say whom we are looking like through his nowface?

It is of Noggens whilk dusts the bothsides of the seats of the bigslaps of the bogchaps of the porlarbaar of the marringaar of the Lochlunn gonnlannludder of the feof of the foef of farfummed Ship-le-Zoyd.

Boumce!

It is polisignstunter.

The Sockerson boy.

To pump the fire of the lewd into those soulths of bauchees, havsousedovers, tillfellthey deadwar knootvindict.

An whele time he was rancing there smutsy flaskons nodunder ycholerd for their poopishers, ahull onem!

Fyre maynoother endnow!

Shatten up ship!

Bouououmce!

Nomo clandoilskins cheakinlevers!

All ashored for Capolic Gizzards!

Stowlaway there, glutany of stainks!

Porterfillyers and spirituous suncksters!

Oooom oooom!

As these vitupetards in his boasum he did strongleholder, bushbrows, nobblynape, swinglyswanglers, sunkentrunk, that from tin of this clucken hadded runced slapottleslup.

For him had hord from fard a piping.

As?

Of ?

Dour Douchy was a sieguldson.

He cooed that loud nor he was young.

He cud bad caw nor he was gray Like wather parted from the say.

Ostia, lift it!

Lift at it, Ostia!

From the say!

Away from the say!

Himhim.

Himhim.

Hearhasting he, himmed, reromembered all the chubbs, chipps, chaffs, chuckinpucks and chayney chimebells That he had mistributed in port, pub, park, pantry and poultryhouse, While they, thered, the others, that are, were most emulously concerned to cupturing the last dropes of summour down through their grooves of blarneying.

Ere the sockson locked at the dure.

Which he would, shuttinshure.

And lave them to sture.

For be all rules of sport ’tis right That youth bedower’d to charm the night Whilst age is dumped to mind the day When wather parted from the say.

The humming, it’s coming.

Insway onsway.

Fingool MacKishguard Obesume Burgeurse Benefice, He was bowen hem and scrapin him in recolcitrantament to the rightabout And these probonopubblicoes clamatising for an extinsion on his hostillery With his chargehand bombing their eres.

Tide, genmen, plays, she been goin shoother aff allmaynoother onawares.

You here nort farwellens rouster?

Ashiffle ashuffle the wayve they.

From Dancingtree till Suttonstone There’s lads no lie would filch a crown To mull their sack and brew their tay With wather parted from the say.

Lelong Awaindhoo’s a selverbourne enrouted to Rochelle Lane and liberties those Mullinguard minstrelsers are marshalsing, par tunepiped road, under where, perked on hollowy hill, that poor man of Lyones, good Dook Weltington, hugon come errindwards, had hircomed to the belles’ bows and been catattrapped by the mausers.

Now is it town again, londmear of Dublin!

And off coursse the toller, ples the dotter of his eyes with her: Moke the Wanst, whye doe we aime alike a pose of poeter peaced?

While the dumb he shoots the shopper rope.

And they all pour forth.

Sans butly Tuppeter Sowyer, the rouged engenerand, a barttler of the beauyne, still our benjamin liefest, sometime frankling to thise citye, whereas bigrented him a piers half subporters for his arms, Josiah Pipkin, Amos Love, Raoul Le Febber, Blaize Taboutot, Jeremy Yopp, Francist de Loomis, Hardy Smith and Sequin Pettit followed by the snug saloon seanad of our Café Béranger.

The scenictutors.

Because they wonted to get out by the goatweigh afore the sheep was looset for to wish the Wobbleton Whiteleg Welshers kaillykailly kellykekkle and savebeck to Brownhazelwood from all the dinnasdoolins on the labious banks of their swensewn snewwesner, turned again weastinghome, by Danesbury Common, and they onely, duoly, thruely, fairly after rainydraining fountybuckets (chalkem up, hemptyempty!)

till they caught the wind abroad (alley loafers passingjeering!)

all the rockers on the roads and all the boots in the stretes.

Oh dere!

Ah hoy!

Last ye, lundsmin, hasty hosty!

For an anondation of mirification and the lutification of our paludination.

His bludgeon’s bruk, his drum is tore.

For spuds we’ll keep the hat he wore And roll in clover on his clay By wather parted from the say.

Hray!

From Free Rogue Mountone till Dew Mild Well to corry awen and glowry!

Are now met by Bawnaboy Fuinnuiguinn’s former for a lyncheon partyng of his burgherbooh.

The Shanavan Wacht.

Rantinroarin Batteries Dorans.

And that whistling thief, O’Ryne O’Rann.

With a catch of her cunning and nowhere a keener.

The fore olders were aspolootly at their wetsends in the moiling walters, trying to.

Hide!

Seek!

Hide!

Seek!

Because number one lived at Bothersby North and he was trying to.

Hide!

Seek!

Hide!

Seek!

And number two digged up Poors Coort, Soother, trying to.

Hide!

Seek!

Hide!

Seek!

And number three he sleeped with Lilly Tekkles at The Eats and he was trying to.

Hide!

Seek!

Hide!

Seek!

And the last with the sailalloyd donggie he was berthed on the Moherboher to the Washte and they were all trying to and baffling with the walters of, hoompsydoompsy walters of.

High!

Sink!

High!

Sink!

Highohigh!

Sinkasink!

Waves.

The gangstairs strain and anger’s up As Hoisty rares the can and cup To speed the bogre’s barque away O’er wather parted from the say.

Horkus chiefest ebblynuncies!

— He shook be ashaped of hempshelves, hiding that shepe in his goat.

And for rassembling so bearfellsed the magreedy prince of Roger Thuthud.

Heigh hohse, heigh hohse, our kindom from an orse!

Bruni Lanno’s woollies on Brani Lonni’s hairyparts.

And the hunk in his trunk it would be an insalt foul the matter of that cellaring to a pigstrough.

Stop his laysense.

Ink him!

You would think him Alddaublin.

Staking his lordsure like a gourd on puncheon.

Deblinity devined!

Wholehunting the pairk on a methylogical mission whenever theres imberillas!

And calling Rina Roner Reinette Ronayne.

To what mine answar is a lemans.

Arderleys, beedles and postbillers heard him.

Three points to one.

Ericus Vericus corrupted into ware eggs.

Dummy up, distillery!

Broree aboo!

Run him a johnsgate down jameseslane!

Begetting a wife which begame his nieces by pouring her youngthings into skintighs.

That was when he had dizzy spells.

Till Gladstools Pillools made ride as the mall.

Thanks to his huedobrass beerd.

Lodebroke the Longman, now he canseels under veerious persons but is always that Rorke relly.

On consideration for the musickers he ought to have down it.

Pass out your cheeks, why daunt you?

Penalty, please!

Then you’ll know how warder barded the bollhead that parssed our alley.

We just are upsidedown singing whatever the dimkims mummur allalilty she pulls inner out heads.

This is not the end of this by no manners means.

When you’ve bled till you’re bone it crops out in your flesh.

To tell how your mead of, mard, is made of.

All old Dadgerson’s dodges one conning one’s copying and that’s what wanderland’s wonderlad’ll flaunt to the fair.

A trancedone boyscript with tittivits by.

Ahem.

You’ll read it tomorrow, morn, when the curds are on the table.

A nigg for a nogg and a thrate for a throte.

The auditor learns.

Still pumping on Yorkenwhite.

Radlump, Lencs.

In preplay to Anonymay’s lefthinted palinode obviously inspiterabled by a sibspecious connexion.

Note the notes of admiration!

See the signs of suspicion!

Count the hemisemidemicolons!

Screamer caps and invented gommas, quoites puntlost, forced to farce!

The pipette will say anything at all for a change.

