Punk.

Starving today plays punk opening tomorrow two plays punk wire splosh how two plays punk Cabler.

Have you forgotten poor Alby Sobrinos, Geoff, you blighter, identifiable by the necessary white patch on his rear?

How he went to his swiltersland after his lungs, my sad late brother, before his coglionial expancian?

Won’t you join me in a small halemerry, a bottle of the best, for wellmet Capeler, united Irishmen, what though preferring the stranger, the coughs and the itches and the minnies and the ratties and the opulose and the bilgenses, for of his was the patriots mistaken.

The heart that wast our Graw McGree!

Yet be there some who mourn him, concluding him dead, and more there be that wait astand.

His fuchs up the staires and the lodgers in his haires, he ought to win that V.V.C.

Fullgrapce for an endupper, half muxy on his whole!

Would he were even among the lost!

From ours bereft beyond belongs.

Oremus poor fraternibus that he may yet escape the gallows and still remain ours faithfully deported.

I wronged you.

I never want to see more of bad men but I want to learn from any on the airse, like Tass with much thanks, here’s ditto, if he lives in the antipathies of Austrasia or anywhere with my fawngest on his hooshmoney, safe and damned, or has hopped it, or who can throw any lime on the sopjack, my sameplace fond fosther, E. Obiit Nolan, The Workings, N.S.W., his condition off the Venerable Jerrybuilt, not belonging to these parts, who I remember ham to me, when we were like bro and sis over our castor and porridge, with his roamin I suppose, expecting for his clarenx negus, a teetotum obstainer.

He feels he ought to be as asamed of me as me to be ashunned of him.

We were in one class of age like to two clots of egg.

I am most beholding to him, my namesick, as we sayed it in our Amharican, through the Doubly Telewisher.

Outpassed hearts wag short pertimes.

Worndown shoes upon his feet, to whose redress no tongue can tell!

In his hands a boot!

Spare me, do, a copper or two, and happy I’ll hope you’ll be!

It will pleased me behind with thanks from before and love to self and all I remain here your truly friend.

I am no scholar but I loved that man who has africot lupps with the moonshane in his profile.

My semblabble!

My freer!

I call you my halfbrother because you in your soberer otiumic moments remind me deeply of my natural saywhen brothel in feed, hop and jollity, S. H. Devitt, that benighted irismaimed, who is tearly belaboured by Sydney and Alibany.

— As you sing it it’s a study.

That letter selfpenned to one’s other, that neverperfect everplanned!

— This nonday diary, this allnights newseryreel.

— My dear sir!

In this wireless age any owl rooster can peck up bostoons.

But whoewaxed he so anguished?

Was he vector victored or victim vexed?

— Mighty sure!

Way way for his wehicale!

A parambolator ram into his bagsmall when he was reading alawd with two ecolites and he’s been failing of that kink in his arts over sense.

— Madonagh and chiel, idealist leading a double life!

But who, for the brilliance of brothers, is the Nolan as appearant nominally?

— Mr Nolan is pronuminally and rereally a Mr Gottgab.

— I get it, you reeker!

An untaken mispatriate!

By hearing his thing about a person one begins to place him for a certain in true.

He stands pat for you before a direct object in the feminine.

I see.

By maiden sname.

Now, I am earnestly asking you and putting it as between this yohou and that houmonymh, will you just search through your gabgut memoirs for all of two minutes for this impersonating pronolan, fairhead on foulshoulders.

Would it be in twofold truth a Doblinganger much about your own medium with a sandy whiskers?

Poke me nabs in the ribs and pick the erstwort out of his mouth.

— Too fullfully true!

Treble Stauter of Holy Baggot, formerly Swordmeat, Street (I surpassed him lately for four and six bringing home the Christmas, as heavy as music, hand to eyes on the peer for Noel’s Arch, in Blessed Foster’s Place) is doing the dirty on me with his tantrums and all these godforgiven kilowatts I’d be better off without.

Though she’s write to him she’s levt by me, Jenny Rediviva!

Toot!

Detter for you, Mr Nobru!

Toot toot!

Better for you, Mr Anol!

This is the way we.

Of a redtettetterday morning.

— When your countraman from Tuwarceathay is looking for righting, that is not a good sign?

Not?

— I speak truly, it’s a shower sign that it’s not.

— What though it be for the sow of his heart?

If even she were a good poor Pegeen?

— If she ate your windowsill you wouldn’t say sow.

— Would you be surprised after that at my asking have you a bull, a bosbully, with a whistle in his tail to scare other birds?

— I would.

— Were you with Sindy and Sandy attending Goliath, a bull?

— You’d make me sag what you like to.

I was intending a funeral.

Simply and samply.

— They are too wise of solbing their silbings?

— And both croon to the same theme.

— Tugbag is Baggut’s, when a crispin sokolist besoops juts kamps or clapperclaws an irvingite offthedocks.

A luckchange, I see.

Thinking young through the muddleage spread, the moral fat his mental leans on.

We can cop that with our straat that is called corkscrewed.

It would be the finest boulevard billy for a mile in every direction, from Lismore to Cape Brendan, Patrick’s, if they took the bint out of the mittle of it.

You told of a tryst too, two a tutu.

I wonder now, without releasing seeklets of the alcove, turturs or raabraabs, have I heard mention of whose name anywhere?

Mallowlane or Demaasch?

Strike us up either end Have You Erred off Van Homper or Ebell Teresa Kane.

— Marak!

Marak!

Marak!

Ha drappad has draraks an Mansianhase parak And ha had ta barraw tha watarcrass shartclaths aff tha arkbashap af Yarak!

— Broadribnob’s on the bummel?

— And lillypets on the lea.

— A being again in becomings again.

From the sallies to the allies through their central power?

— Pirce!

Perce!

Quick!

Queck!

— O Tara’s thrush!

The sharepusher!

And he said he was only taking the average grass temperature for Green Thurdsday, the blutchy scaliger!

Who you know the musselman, his musclemum and mistlemam?

Maomi, Mamie, My Mo Mum!

He loves a drary lane.

Feel Phylliscitations to Daff Mr Hairwigger who as just added twinned little curls!

He was resting between Horrockses’ sheets, wailing for white warfare, prooboor welshtbreton, unbiassed by the embarrassment of disposal, but the first woking day in Baltic Bygrad, by Thunder, he stepped into the breach and put on his recriution trousers and riding apron, the old soggy, was when the bold bhuoys of Iran wouldn’t join up.

— How voice you that, nice Sandy man?

Not large goodman is he, Sandy nice?

Ask him this one minute upthrow inner lotus of his burly ear womit he dropped his Bass’s to P flat.

— And for that he was allaughed?

And then baited?

The whole gammat?

— Loonacied!

Marterdyed!!

Madwakemiherculossed!!!

Judascessed!!!!

Pairaskivvymenassed!!!!!

Luredogged!!!!!!

And, needatellye, faulscrescendied!!!!!!!

— Dias Domnas!

Dolled to dolthood?

And Annie Delittle, his daintree diva, in deltic dwilights, singing him henpecked rusish through the bars?

My Wolossay’s wild as the Crasnian Sea!

Grabashag, groogy, scoop and I’ll cure ye!

Mother of emeralds, ara poog neighbours!

— Capilla, Rubrilla and Melcamomilla!

Dauby, dauby, without dulay!

Well, I beg to traverse same above statement by saxy luters in their back haul of Coalcutter what reflects upon my administrants of slew poisoning inasmuch as my dodear devere revered meinhirr was confined to guardroom, I hindustand, by my pint of his Filthered pilsen’s bottle due to Zenaphiah Holwell, H and J. C. S, which I was bringing up my quee parapotacarry’s orders in my sedown chair with my mudfacepacket from my cash chemist and family drugger, Surager Dowling, V.S., to our aural surgeon, Afamado Hairductor Achmed Borumborad Sahib, M.A.C.A., of 1001 Ombrilla Street, Syringapadham, Alleypulley, to see what was my watergood, my mesical wasserguss, for repairs done by bollworm in the rere of pilch knickers, seven yerds to his galandhar pole on perch, together with his for me unfillable slopper, property of my deeply forfear revebereared, who was costing us mostfortunes which I am writing in mepetition to Kavanagh Djanaral, when he was sitting him humpbacked in dry dryfilthyheat to his Trinidad pinslers at their orpentings, entailing a laxative tendency to mary, especially with him being forbidden fruyt and certified by his sexular clergy to have as badazmy emotional valvular, with a basketful of priesters crossing the singorgeous to aroint him with tummy moor’s maladies, and thereinafter liable to succumb, when served with letters potent below the belch, if my rupee ropure riputed husbandship H.R.R.

took a brief one in his shirtsails out of the alleged given mineral, telling me see in Foraignghistan sambatpapers his Sunday features of a welcomed aperrytiff with vallad of Erill Pearcey O (he never battered one eagle’s before paying me his duty on my annaversary to the parroteyes list in my nil ensemble in his lazychair but he hidded up my hemifaces in all my mayarannies and he looked plum into my mirrymouth like Ysamasy morning in the end of time with the songlight’s hope singling on his ruddycheeks and rawjaws) and, my charmer, when I dipped my hand in he simply showed me his propendiculous loadpoker, Seaserpents hisses Sissastones, which was as then is produced in his man’s way by this wisest of the Vikramadityationists with the remere ramind remure remark, in his gulughurutty: Yran for parasites with rum for the turkeycockeys so, Lithia, M.D., as this is for Snooker, bort!

— Which was said by whem to whom?

— It wham.

But whim I can’t whumember.

— Fantasy!

Funtasy on fantasy!

Amnes’ fintasies!

And there is nihil nuder under the clothing moon.

When Ota, weewahrwificle of Torquells, bumpsed her dumpsydiddle down in her woolsark, she mode our heuteyleutey girlery of peerlesses to set up in all their bombossities of feudal fiertey, fanned, flounced and frangipanned, while the massstab whereby Ephialtes has exceeded is the measure, simplex mendaciis, by which our Outis cuts his thruth.

Arkaway now!

— Yerds and nudes say ayes and noes!

Vide!

Vide!

— Let Eivin bemember for Gates of Gold for their fadeless suns berayed her.

Irise, O sirises!

Be thy mouth given unto thee!

For why do you lack a link of luck to poise a pont of perfect, peace?

On the vignetto is a ragingoos.

The overseer of the house of the oversire of the seas, Nu-Men, triumphant, sayeth: Fly as the hawk, cry as the corncrake, Ani Latch of the postern is thy name; shout!

— My heart, my mother!

My heart, my coming forth of darkness!

They know not my heart, O coolun dearast!

Mon gloomerie!

Mon glamourie!

What a surpraise, dear Mr Preacher, I to hear from your strawnummical modesty!

Yes, there was that skew arch of chrome sweet home, floodlit up above the flabberghosted farmament and bump where the camel got the needle.

Talk about iridescencies!

Ruby and beryl and chrysolite, jade, sapphire, jasper and lazul.

— Orca Bellona!

Heavencry at earthcall, etnat athos?

Extinct your vulcanology for the lava of Moltens!

— It’s you not me’s in erupting, hecklar!

— Ophiuchus being visible above t’horizon, Muliercula occluded by Satarn’s serpent ring system, the Pisciolinies, Nova Ardoris and Prisca Parthenopea, are a bonnie feature in the northern sky.

Ers, Mores and Merkery are surgents below the rim of the Zenith Part, while Arctura, Anatolia, Hesper and Mesembria weep in their mansions over Noth, Haste, Soot and Waste.

— Apep and Uachet!

Holy snakes!

Chase me, Charley, Eva’s got barley!

Under her fluencies, all in!

The Ural Mount he’s on the move and he’ll quivvy her with his strombolo!

Waddlewurst, the bag of tow, as broad above as he is below!

Creeping through the liongrass and bullrusshies, the obesendean, before the Emfang de Maurya’s class in Bill Shasser’s shotshrift writing academy camouflaged as a blancmange and maple syrup!

Obeisance to their sitinims is the follicity of this Orp!

Her sheik to Slave, his dick to Dave, and the fat of the land to Guygas.

The treadmill pebbledropper haha halfahead overground and she’d only chitschats in her spanking bee bonnetry, Allapolloosa!

Up the slanger!

Three cheers (and a heva heva heva!)

for the name Dan Magraw!

— The giant sun is in his emanence but which is chief of those white dwarfees of which he ever is surabanded?

— And to think I might have being his seventh!

He will kitssle me on melbaw.

What about his age?

says you.

What about it?

says I. I will confess to his sins and blush me further.

I would misdemean to rebuke to the libels of snots from the fleshambles, the canalles.

Synamite is too good for them.

Two overthirties in shore shorties!

She’s askapot at Nile Lodge and she’s citchincarry at the left Mrs Hamazum’s.

Will you warn your old habasund, barking at baggermen, his chokefull chewing his chain?

Responsif you plais.

The said Sully, a barracker associated with tinkers, the blackhand Shovellyvans, wreuter of annoyingmost letters and skirriless ballets in Parsee Franch, he is Magrath’s thug and smells cheaply of Power’s spirits like a deepsea dibbler and he is not fit enough to throw guts down to a bear.

Sylphling me when is a maid nought a maid he would go to anyposs length for her!

So long, Sulleyman!

If they cut his nose on the stitcher they had their seven good reasons.

Here’s to the leglift of my snuff and trout stockangt henkerchoff, orangefin with a mosaic of dispensations from my church milliner and a frozen black patata, when Lynch, Brother, With-workers, Friends and Company with T. C. King and the Warden of Galway is prepared to stretch him sacred by the powers to the starlight, L.B.W.

Hemp, hemp, hurray!

says the captain in the moonlight.

I could put him under my pallyass and slepp on him all night, as I would roll myself for holy poly over his barrowing places.

How we will make laugh over him together, me and my Riley in the Vickar’s bed!

Quink!

says I.

He cawls to me Granny-stream-Auborne when I am hiding under my hair from him and I cool him my Finnyking he’s so joyant a bounder.

Plunk!

said he.

Inasmuch as I am delightful to be able to state, with the joy of lifing in my forty winkers, that a handsome sovereign was freely pledged in their pennis in the sluts maschine, alonging with a cherrywickerkishabrack of maryfruit under Shadow La Rose, to both the legintimate lady performers of display unquestionable, Elsebett and Marryetta Gunning, H2O, by that noblesse of leechers at his Saxon tannery with motto in Wwalshe’s ffrenchllatin, O’Neill Saw Queen Molly’s Pants, and much admired engraving meaning complete manly parts during alleged recent act of our chief mergey margey magistrades, five itches above the kneecap, as required by statues.

V.I.C.5.6.

If you won’t release me stop to please me up the leg of me.

Now you see!

