Big Butter Boost!

Sorry!

Thnkyou!

Thatll beall fortoday.

Call it off!

Godnotch, vrybolly!

End a muddy chrushmess!

Abbreciades anew York gustoms.

Kyow!

Tak!

— Tiktak.

Tiktak.

— Awind abuzz awater falling.

— Poor a cows his jew placator.

— It’s the damp damp damp.

Calm has entered.

Big Big Calm, announcer!

It is ernst terooly a most moresome intartenmont!

Colt’s tooth!

I will give tandsel to it.

I protest there is luttrelly not one teaspoonspill of evidence at bottomlie to my babad, as you shall see, as this is, Keemun Lapsang of first pickings.

And I contango I can take off my dudud my dirtynine articles of quoting here in Pynix Park before those in heaven to provost myself by gramercy of justness a virgoman and moremon, stiff and staunch for ever, and enter under the advicies to their favoured client from Misrs Norris, Sotheby, Yates and Weston, Inc, into my preprotestant Caveat against the pupup publication of libel by any tixtim tipsyloon or tobtom towley of Keisserse Lean to that highest personage at moments holding down the throne.

So to speak of beauty scouts in elegant pursuit of flowers, searchers for tabernacles and the celluloid art!

Happen seen sore eynes belived?

The caca cad!

A bloweyed lanejoynt, waring lowbelt suit, with knockbrecky kenees and bullfist rings round him and a fallse roude axehand (he is cunvesser to Saunter’s Nocelettres and the Poe’s Toffee’s Directory in his pisness), the best begrudged man in Belgradia, who doth not belease to our paviour, he walked by North Strand with his Thom’s towel in hand.

Snakeeye!

Strangler of soffiacated green parrots!

I protest it that he is, by my wipehalf, my nomesuch!

He was leaving out of my double inns while he was all teppling over my single ixits.

So was keshaned on for his recent behaviour.

Sherlook is lorking for him.

Allare beltspanners!

Hourspringlike his joussture, immitiate my chry!

As urs now, so yous then!

Get your air curt!

Shame upon pipip Private M—!

Shames on his foulsomeness!

Shamus on his atkinscum’s lulul lying suulen for an outcast mastiff littered in blood currish!

Erestocrass till Hanging Tower!

Steck a javelin through his advowtried heart!

Instaunton!

Flap, my Larrybird!

Dangle, my highflyer!

Jiggety jig, my jackadandyline!

Let me never see his waddphez again!

And mine it was, Barktholed von Hunarig, Soesown af Furrows, when to our lot it fell on my poplar Sexsex, my Sexencentaurnary, when by gate of Hal, before his hostel of the Wodin Man, I hestened to freeholdit op to His Mam His Mamam Majuscules His Magnus Maggerstick first city’s leasekuays of this Nova Tara, our most noble, when hrossbucked on his pricelist charger, Pferdinamd Allibuster (yeddonot need light oar till Noreway for you fanned one o’er every doorway), with my allbum’s greethims through this whole of my promises: Handshakey Congrandyoulikethems, Ecclesency!

Whosaw the jackery dares at handgripper thisa breast?

Dose makkers ginder!

Some one we was with us all fours.

Adversarian!

The spiking Duyvil!

First liar in Londsend!

Wulv!

See yon scargore on that skeepsbrow!

And those meisies!

Sulken taarts!

Man sicker at I ere bluffit konservateve?

Shucks!

Such ratshause bugsmess so I cannot barely conceive of!

Lowest basemeant in hystry!

Ibscenest nansence!

Noksagt!

Per Peeler and Pawr!

The brokerheartened shugon!

Hole affair is rotten muckswinish porcupig’s draff!

Enouch!

— Is that yu, Whitehead?

— Have you headnoise now?

— Give us your mespilt reception, will yous?

— Pass the fish for Christ’ sake!

Old Whitehowth he is speaking again.

Ope eustace tube!

Pity poor Whiteoath!

Dear gone mumum mummeries, goby!

Tell the woyld I have livet true thousand hells.

Pity, please, lady, for poor O.W.

in this profundust snobbing I have caught.

Nine dirty years mine age, hairs hoar, mummery failend, snowdrift to my ellpow, deff as Adder, I askt you, dear lady, to judge on my tree by our fruits.

I gave you of the tree.

I gave two smells, three eats.

My freeandies, my celeberrimates!

My happybossoms, my allfalling fruits of my boom.

Pity poor Haveth Childers Everywhere with Mudder!

That was Communicator, a former colonel, disincarnated.

He is not all hear.

A spirit called Sebastian from the Rivera in Januero may fernspreak shortly with messuages from my deadported.

He does not believe in our psychous of the Real Absence, neither miracle wheat nor soulsurgery of P. P. Quemby.

Let us cheer him up a little and make an appunkment for a future date.

Hello, Communicator!

Eh?

How’s the buttes?

Everscepistic!

He has had some indiejestings, poor thing, for quite a little while, confused by his tonguer of baubble.

Away with him!

Poor Felix Culaper!

Ring his mind, ye staples (bonze!

), in my ould reekeries’ ballyheart and in my krumlin and in aroundisements and stremmis!

Sacks eleathury!

Sacks eleathury!

Bam!

I deplore over him ruely.

Mongrieff!

O Hone!

Guestermed with the nobelities, todie bronxitic in achershous!

So enjoying of old thick whiles, in haute white toff’s hoyt of our formed reflections, with stock of eisen all his prop, so buckely hosiered from the Royal Leg, and his puertos mugnum, he would puffout a dhymful bock!

And the how he would husband her that verikerfully, his cigare divane (he would redden her with his vestas, but ’tis naught), with us, his nephos and his neberls, mest incensed and befogged by him and his smoke thereof!

But he shall have his glad stein of our zober beerbest in Oscarshal’s winetavern.

Buen retiro!

The boyce voyce is still flautish and his mounth still wears that soldier scarlet though the flaxafloyeds, alas, are peppered with salsedine.

It is bycause of what he was ascend into his prisonce on account off.

I whit it well.

Hence he’s deepraised words.

Some day I may tell of his second storey.

Mood!

Mood!

It looks like someone other bearing my burdens.

I cannot let it.

Kanes nought.

Well, yeamen, I have bared my whole past, I flatter myself, on both sides.

Give me even my two months by laxlaw in second division and my first broadcloth is business will be to protest to Recorder at Thing of all Things, or court of Skivinis, with marchants grey, antient and credibel, Zerobubble Barrentone, Jonah Whalley, Determined Codde or Cucumber Upright, my jurats, if it does not occur again.

O rhyme us!

Haar Faagher, wild heart in Homelan, Harrod’s be thee naun, mine kinder come, mine wohl be won!

There is nothing like leuther.

O shee!

And nosty mens in gladshouses they shad not peggott stones.

The elephant’s house is his castle.

I am here to tell you, indeed to goodness, that, allbe I discountenanced beallpersuasions in rinunciniation of my pomps of heretofore, with a wax too held in hand, I am thorgtfulldt to do dope me of Ovocna’s miscisprinks and by virchow of those filthered waters presently, like Browne umbracing Christina Anya, after the Irishers, to convert me into a Selt (but first I must proxy babetise my old antenaughties) when, being fully alive to it, as Sigismond Stolterforth, with Rabbin Robroost for my auspicer and Leecher Rutty for my lifearst (Ehren til viktrae!

), I will westerneyes those poor sunuppers and outbreiten their land’s eng.

A man should stump up and I will pay my pretty decent trade price for my glueglue glucose, peebles, were it even, as this is, the legal eric for wholewiping clean infelicitous conduict (here incloths placefined my pocketanchoredcheck) and, as a matter of fact, I undertake to discontinue entyrely all practices and I deny in toto at my own request in all stoytness to have confermentated and confoederated and agreed in times prebellic, when here were waders for the trainsfolk, as it is now nuggently laid to me, with a friend from mine, Mr Billups, pulleter, my quarterbrother, who sometimes he is doing my locum for me on a grubstake and whom I have cleped constoutuent, for so it was felt by me, at goodbuy cootcoop by usucapiture a mouthless niggeress, Blanchette Brewster from Cherna Djamja, Blawlawnd-via-Brigstow, or to illsell my fourth part in her, which although allowed of in Deuterogamy as in several places of Scripture (copyright) and excluded books (they should quite rightly verbanned be) would seem eggseggs excessively harroween to my feelimbs, for twa punt scotch, one pollard and a crocard or three pipples on the bitch.

Thou, Frick’s flame, Uden Sulfer, who strikest only on the marryd bokks, entquick me if so be I did cophetuise milady’s maid!

In spect of her beavers she is a womanly and sacret.

Such wear a frillick for my comic strip (Mons Meg’s Monthly, comes out aich Fanagan’s Weck) to bray at by clownsillies in Donkeybrook Fair.

It would lackin mackin Hodder’s and Cocker’s erithmatic.

The unpurdonable preempson of all of her of yourn, by Juno Moneta!

If she, irished Marryonn Teheresiann, has been disposed of for her consideration, I, Ledwidge Salvatorious, am tradefully unintiristid.

And if she is still further talc slopping over her cocoa contours, I, hwat mick angars, am strongly of opinion why I should not be.

Improbable!

I do not credit one word of it from such and suchess mistraversers.

Just feathers!

Nanenities!

Or to have ochtroyed to resolde or borrough by exchange same super melkkaart, means help, best Brixton, high yellow, no outings, cent for cent on Auction’s Bridge.

’Twere a honnibel crudelty wert so tentement to their naktlives and scatab orgias we devour about in the mightyevil roohms of enceint Cartage.

Utterly improperable!

Not for alled Crusos or white soul of gold!

A pipple on the panis, two claps on the cansill, or three pack pocks cassey knocked on the postern!

Not for one testey tickey culprik’s coynde ore for all écus in cunziehowffse!

So hump me Cash!

I meanit.

My herrings!

The surdity of it, mean to say.

Her bare idears, it is choo-choo chucklesome.

Absurd bargain, mum, will call.

One line, with!

One line, with, with!

Will ate everadayde saumone like a boyne alive O.

The tew cherripickers with their catheringnettes, Lizzy and Lissy Mycock from Street Fleshshambles, were they moon at aube with hespermun and I their covin guardient, I would not know to contact such gretched youngsteys in my ways from Haddem or any suistersees or heiresses of theirn, claiming by, through, or under them.

Ous of their freiung pfann into myne foyer!

Her is one which rassembled to mein enormally.

The man what shocked his shanks at contey Carlow’s.

He is Deucollion.

Each habe goheard: Up-taking you are innersence but we sen you meet sose infance.

Deucollion!

Odor: Evilling chimbes is smutsick rivulverblott but thee hard casted thereass pigstenes upann Congan’s shootsmen in Schottenhof, ekeascent?

Igen Deucollion!

I liked his gothamn chic!

Stuttertub!

What a shrubbery trick to play!

Hear this!

I will put my oathhead unner my whitepot for ransom of beeves and will stand me where I stood mine in all free heat between Pelagios and little Chistayas by Roderick’s, our most monolith, after my both earstoear and brebreeches buybibles and, minhaton, testify to my unclothed virtue by the longstone erectheion of our allfirst manhere.

I should tell you that honestly, on my honour of a Nearwicked, I always think (in a wordsworth of that primed favourite continental poet, Daunty, Gouty and Shopkeeper, A. G., whom the generality admoyers in this that is and that this is to come) like as my palmer’s past policy I have had my best master’s lesson, as the public he knows.

And do you know, homesters, I honestly think if I have failed lamentably by accident benefits, though shintoed, spitefired, perplagued and cramkrieged, I am doing my dids bits and have made of my prudentials good.

I have been told I own stolemines or something of that sort in the sooth of Spainien.

Hohohoho!

Have I said ogso how I abhor myself vastly (truth to tell) and do repent me to my nether heart of suntry clothing?

The amusin part is, I will say, hotelmen, that, after martiell siegewin with Abbot Warre to blesse on yon slauchterday of cleantarriffs, since I, yetnot a bottlenim, over the deep drowner Athacleeath to seek again Irrlanding, shamed in mind, with three plunges of my ruddertail, vanced imperial standard by weaponright and platzed mine residenze, taking bourd and burgage under starrymisty, and ran and operated my Brixtol selection here at thollstall, for mean straits male with evorage fimmel, in commune soccage, among strange and enemy, among these plotlets, at Poplinstown, alore Fort Dunlip, then-on-sea, hole of Serbonian bog, now city of magnificent distances, goodwalldabout, with talus and counterscarp and pale of palisades, in that year which I have called myriabellous, and overdrave these marken under patroonshaap of our good kingsinnturns, T. R. H. Urban First and Champaign Chollyman and Hungry the Loaved and Hangry the Hathed, here where my tenenure of office and my toils of domestication first began, with weight of woman my skat and skuld but Flukie of the Ravens my sure piloter, famine with Englisch sweat and oppedemics, the twotoothed Dragonworms with allsort serpents, has compolitely seceded from this landleague of many nations, and open and notorious naughty livers are found not on our rolls.

This seat of our city it is of all sides pleasant, comfortable and wholesome.

If you would traverse hills, they are not far off.

If champain land, it lieth of all parts.

If you would be delited with fresh water, the famous river called of Ptolemy the Libnia Labia runneth fast by.

If you will take the view of the sea, it is at hand.

Give heed!

— Do Drumcollogher whatever you do!

— Visitez Drumcollogher-la-Belle!

— Be suke and sie so ersed Drumcollogher!

— Vedi Drumcollogher e poi Moonis!

Things are not as they were.

Let me briefly survey.

Pro clam a shun!

Pip!

Peep!

Pipitch!

Ubipop jay piped, ibipep goes the whistle.

Here Tyeburn throttled, massed marmurs march: where the bus stops, there shop I: here which ye see, yea reste.

On me, your sleeping giant.

Estoesto!

Estote sunto!

From the hold of my capt in altitude till the mortification that’s my fate.

The end of our aldest mosest ist the beginning of all thisorder so the last of their hansbailis shall the first in our sheriffsby.

Peace and plenty!

