Respect.

S.V.P.

Your wife.

Amn.

Anm.

Amm.

Ann.

— You wish to take us, Frui Mria, by degrees as artis litterarumque patrona but I am afraid, my poor woman of that same name, what with your silvanes and your salvines, you are misled.

— Alas for livings’ pledjures!

— Lordy Daw and Lady Don!

Uncle Foozle and Aunty Jack!

Sure, that old humbugger was boycotted and girlcutted in debt and doom, on hill and haven, even by the show-the-flag flotilla, as I’m given now to understand.

Illscribed in the gratuitouses and conspued in the takeyourhandaways.

Bumbty Tumbty Sot on a Wall.

Mute art for the Million.

There wasn’t an archimandrite of Dane’s Island and the townland’s tropics nor a minx from the Isle of Woman nor a one of the four cantins nor any on the whole wheel of his ecunomical counciliabulum nor nogent ingen meid on alled the holed scurface of the jorth would come next or nigh him, Mr Eelwhipper, seed and nursery man, or his allgas bumgalowre, Auxilium Meum Solo A Domino (Amsad), for rime or ration, from piles or faces, after that.

— All ears did wag old Eire wake as Piers Aurell was flappergangsted.

— Recount!

— I have it here to my fingees’ ends.

This liggy piggy wanted to go to the jampot.

And this leggy peggy spelt pea.

And threese lucky puckers played at pooping tooletom.

Ma’s da.

Da’s ma.

Madas.

Sadam.

— Pater patruum cum filiabus familiarum.

Or, but, now, and, ariring out of her mirgery margery watersheads and, to change the subjunct from the traumaturgid for a once in a while and darting back to stuff, if so be you may identify yourself with the him in you, that fluctuous neck merchantur, bloodfadder and milkmudder, since there are too many of her, Abha na Lifé, and getting on to dadaddy again, as them we’re ne’er free of, was he in tea e’er he went on the bier or didn’t he onetime do something seemly heavy in sugar?

He sent out Christy Columb and he came back with a jailbird’s unbespokables in his beak and then he sent out Le Caron Crow and the peacies are still looking for him.

The seeker from the swayed, the beesabouties from the parent swarm.

Speak to the right!

Rotacist ca canny!

He caun ne’er be bothered but maun e’er be waked.

If there is a future in every past that is present Quis est qui non novit Quinnigin and Qui quwere quot at Quinnigain’s Quake?

Stump!

His producers, are they not his consumers?

Your exagmination round his factification for incamination of a warping process.

Declaim!

— Arra irraha hirarra, man, weren’t they arriving in clansdestinies for the Imbandiment of the Ad Regias Agni Dapes, fogabawlers and panhibernskers, after the crack and the lean years, scalpjaggers with houth-headhunters, like the messiats of the great god, a scarlet trainful, the Twoedged Petrard, totalling, leggats and prelaps, in their aggregate ages two and thirty plus undecimmed centries of them, with tuitifruities, insiders and extraomnes allcunct, from Rathgar, Rathangan, Roundtown and Rush, from America Avenue and Asia Place and the Afrian Way and Europa Parade and besogar the walds of Noo Souch Wilds, and from Vico, Mespil, Rock and Sorrento, for the lure of his weal and the fear of his oppidumic, to his salon de espera in the keel of his kraal, like lodes of ores flocking fast to Mount Maximagnetic, afeerd he was a gunner but affaird to stay away, Merrionites, Dumstdumbdrummers and Luccanicans, Ashtowners, Battersby Parkes and Krumlin Boyards, Phillipsburgs, Cabraists and Finglossies, Ballymunmen, Raheniacs and the bettlers of Clontarf, for to contemplate in manifests and pay their firstrate duties before the both of him, twelve stone a side, with their Thieve le Roué!

and their Shvr yr Thrst!

and their Uisgue ad Inferos!

and their Usque ad Ebbraios!

at and in the licensed boosiness premises of his delhightful bazar and reunited magazine hall, by the magazine wall, Hosty’s and Co, Exports, for his five hundredth and sixtysixth borthday, the Grand Old Magennis Mor, Persee and Rahli, taker of the tributes, their Rinseky Poppakork and Piowtor the Grape, holding Dunker’s durbar, boot kings and indiarubber umpires and shawhs from Paisley and muftis in muslim and sultana reiseines and jordan almonders and a row of jam sahibs and an odd principeza in her pettedcoat and the queen of knight’s clubs and the Claddagh ringleaders and the two salaames and the Halfa Ham and the Hanzas Khan with two fat maharashers and the German selver geyser, and he polished up, protemptible, tintinabulating to himsilf so silfrich.

And there was J.

B. Dunlop, the best tyrent of ourish times, and a swanks of French wine stuarts and Tudor keepsakes and the Cesarewitch for the current counter, Leodegarius Sant Legegleger, riding lapsaddlelonglegs up the oakses staircase on muleback, like Amaxodios Isteroprotos, hindquarters to the fore and kick to the lift, and he handigrabbed on to his trulley natural anthem, Horsibus, keep your tailyup, and as much as the halle of the vacant throneroom, Oldloaf ’s Buttery, could safely accommodate of the houses of Orange and Bitters M.P., permeated by Druids D.P.

and Brehons B.P.

and Flawhoolaghs F.P.

and Agiapommenites A.P.

and Antepummelites P.P.

and Ulster Kong and Munster’s Herald with Athclee Ensigning and Athlone Poursuivant and his Imperial Catchering, his fain awan, and his gemmynosed sanctsons in epheud and ordilawn and his diamondskulled granddaucher, Adamantaya Liubokovskva, all murdering Irish, amok and amak, out of their boom companions in paunchjab and dogril and pammel and gougeroutty after plenty of his fresh stout and his good balls of malt, not to forget his oels a’mona nor his beers o’ryely, sopped down by his pani’s annagolorum (at Kennedy’s kiln she kned her dough, back of her bake for me, buns!

), socialising and communicounting in the deification of his members, for to nobble or salvage their herobit of him, the poohpooher old bolssaloose, with his arthurious clayroses, Dodderick Ogonoch Wreck, busted to the wurrld at large, lying high as he lay in all dimensions on the table round in court dress and ludmers chain, as true as the Vernons have Brian’s sword, with the floodlight switched back and a dozen and one by one tilly tallows round in ringcampf, circumassembled by his daughters in the foregiftness of his sons and with a hogo, fluorescent of his swathings, round him like the cummulium of scents in an Italian warehouse, erica’s clustered on his hayir, the spectrum in his prisent mocking the candiedights of his dadtid, bagpuddingpodded to his deafspot, bewept of his chilidrim and serafim, poors and personalities, venturous, drones and dominators, ancients and auldancients, with his buttend up, expositoed for sale after referee’s inspection, bulgy and blowrious, bunged to ignorious, healed, cured and embalsamate, pending a rouseruction of his bogey, most highly astounded, as it turned up, after his life overlasting, at thus being reduced to nothing.

— Bappy-go-gully and gaff for us all!

And all his morties calisenic, tripping a trepas, neniatwantyng: Mulo Mulelo!

Homo Humilo!

Dauncy a deady O!

Dood dood dood!

O Bawse!

O Boese!

O Muerther!

O Mord!

Mahmato!

Moutmaro!

O Smirtsch!

O Smertz!

Wo Hillill!

Wa Hallall!

Thou Thuoni!

Thou Thaunaton!

Umartir!

Udamnor!

Tschitt!

Mergue!

Eulumu!

Huam Khuam!

Malawinga!

Malawunga!

Ser Oh Ser!

See ah See!

Hamovs!

Hemoves!

Mamor!

Rockquiem eternuel give donal aye in dolmeny!

Bad luck’s perpepperpot loosen his eyis!

(Psich!)

— But there’s leps of flam in Funnycoon’s Wick.

The keyn has passed.

Lung lift the keying!

— God save you king!

Master of the Hidden Life!

— God serf yous kingly, adipose rex!

I had four in the morning and a couple of the lunch and three later on but, your saouls to the dhaoul, do ye.

Finnk.

Fime.

Fudd?

— Impassable tissue of improbable liyers!

D’yu mean to set there where y’are now, coddlin’ your supernumerary leg, wi’ that bizaar tongue in yur tolkshap, Sorley boy, repeating yurself like a muck in a market with your hindies and shindies, and tell me that?

— I mean to sit here on this altknoll where you are now, Surly guy, replete in myself, as long as I live, in my homespins, like a sleepingtop, with all that’s buried ofsins insince insensed insidesofme.

If I can’t upset this pound of pressed ollaves I can sit up zounds of sounds upon him.

— Oliver!

He may be an earthpresence.

Was that a groan or did I hear the Dingle bagpipes?

Wasting war and.

Watch!

— Tris tris a ni ma mea!

Prisoner of Love!

Bleating Hart!

Lowlaid Herd!

Aubain Hand!

Wonted Foot!

Usque!

Usque!

Usque!

Lignum in … — Rawth of Gar and Donnerbruck Fire!

Is the strays world moving mound or what static babel is this, tell us?

— Whoishe whoishe whoishe whoishe linking in?

Whoishe whoishe whoishe?

— The snare drum!

Lay yer lug till the groun.

The dead giant, man alive!

They’re playing thimbles and bodkins.

Clan of the Gael!

Hep!

Whu’s within?

— Dovegall and finshark they are.

Ring to the rescue!

Zinzin.

Zinzin.

Crum abu!

Cromwell to victory!

We’ll gore them and gash them and gun them and gloat on them.

Zinzin.

— O, widows and orphans, it’s the yeomen!

Redshanks for ever!

Up Lancs!

— The cry of the roedeer it is!

The white hind!

Their slots, linklink.

The hounds hunt horning!

Send us peace!

Title!

Title!

Christ in our Irish times!

Christ on the airs’ independence!

Christ hold the freedman’s chareman!

Christ light the dully expressed!

Slog, slagt and sluaghter!

Rape the daughter!

Choke the pope!

Awe!

Cloudy father!

Unsure!

Nongood!

Zinzin.

Sold!

I am sold!

My ersther!

My sidster!

Brinabride, goodbye!

Brinabride!

Us!

Us!

Pipette dear!

I sold!

Me!

Me!

Fort!

Fort!

Bayroyt!

March!

Me!

I’m true.

True!

Isolde!

Pipette, my precious!

Zinzin.

Brinabride, get my price!

Brinabride!

My price, my precious?

Zin.

Brinabride, my price!

When you sell get my price!

Zin.

Pipette!

Pipette, my priceless one!

O!

Mother of my tears!

Believe for me!

Fold thy son!

Zinzin.

Zinzin.

— Now we’re gettin it.

Tune in and pick up the forain counties!

Hello!

Zinzin.

— Hello!

Tittit!

Tell your title?

Abride!

— Hellohello!

Ballymacarett!

