I hate to look at alarms but, however they put on my watchcraft, must now close as I hereby hear by ear from my seeless socks ’tis time to be up and ambling.

Mymiddle toe’s mitching, so mizzle I must else ’twill sarve me out.

Gulp a bulper at parting and the moore the melodest!

Farewell but whenever, as Tisdall told Toole.

Tempos fidgets.

Let flee me fiacckles, says the grand old manoark, stormcrested crowcock and undulant hair, hoodies tway!

Yes, faith, I am as mew let freer, beneath me corthage, bound.

I’m as bored now bawling beersgrace at sorepaws there as Andrew Clays was sharing sawdust with Daniel’s old collie.

This shack’s not big enough for me now.

I’m dreaming of ye, azores.

And remember this, a chorines, there’s the witch on the heath, sistra!

Bansheeba peeling hourihaared while her Orcotron is hoaring ho.

And whinn muinnuitt flittsbit twinn her ttittshe cries tallmidy!

Daughters of the heavens, be lucks in turnabouts to the wandering sons of red loam!

The earth’s atrot!

The sun’s a scream!

The air’s a jig!

The water’s great!

Seven oldy oldy hills and the one blue beamer.

I’m going.

I know I am.

I could bet I am.

Somewhere I must get, far away from Banba shore, wherever I am.

No saddle, no staffet, but spur on the moment!

So I think I’ll take freeboots’ advice.

Psk!

I’ll borrow a path to lend me wings, quickquack, and from Jehusalem’s wall, clickclack, to Cheerup street me courser’s clear till I’ll travel the void world over.

It’s Winland for moyne, bickbuck!

Jeejakers!

I hurt meself nettly that time!

Come, my good frogmarchers!

We felt the fall but we’ll front the defile.

Was not my oltu mutther, Sereth Maritza, a Runningwater?

And the bould one that quickened her the seaborne Fingale?

I feel like that hill of a whaler went yudling round Groenmund’s Circus with his tree full of seaweeds and Dinky Doll asleep in her shell.

Hazelridge has seen me.

Ierne valing is.

Squall aboard for Kew, hop!

Farewell awhile to her and thee!

The brine’s my bride to be.

Lead on, Macadam, and danked be he who first sights Halt Linduff!

Solo, solone, solong!

Lood Erynnana, ware thee wail!

With me singame soarem o’erem!

Here’s me takeoff.

Now’s nunc or nimmer, siskinder!

Here goes the enemy!

Bennydick hotfoots onimpudent stayers!

Sorry!

I bless alls to the whished with this panroman apological which Whatllwewhistlem sang to the kerrycoys.

Break ranks!

After wage-of-battle bother I am thinking most.

Fik yew!

I’m through.

Won.

Toe.

Adry.

You watch my smoke.

After poor Jaun the Boast’s last fireless words of postludium of his soapbox speech ending in’s heaven, twentyaid add one with a flirt of wings were pouring to his bysistance (could they snip that curl of curls to lay with their gloves and keep the kids bright!

), prepared to cheer him should he leap or to curse him should he fall, with their biga triga rheda rodeo, the cherub’s in the charabang, setdown here and sedan chair, don’t you wish you’d a yoke or a bit in your mouth, but, repulsing all attempts at first hands on, as no es nada, our greatly misunderstood one we perceived to give himself some sort of a hermetic prod or kick to sit up and take notice, which acted like magic, while the phalanx of daughters of February Filldyke, embushed and climbing, ramblers and weeps, voiced approval in their customary manner by dropping kneedeep in tears over their concelebrated meednight sunflower, piopadey boy, their solase in dorckaness, and splattering together joyously the plaps of their tappyhands as, with a cry of genuine distress, so prettly prattly pollylogue, they viewed him, the just one, their darling, away.

A dream of favours, a favourable dream.

They know how they believe that they believe that they know.

Wherefore they wail.

Eh jourd’weh!

Oh jourd’woe!

Dosiriously it psalmodied.

Guesturn’s lothlied answring to-maronite’s wail.

Oasis, cedarous esaltarshoming Leafboughnoon!

Oisis, coolpressus onmountof Sighing!

Oasis, palmost esaltarshoming Gladdays!

Oisis, phantastichal roseway anjerichol!

Oasis, newleavous spaciosing encampness!

Oisis, plantainous dewstuckacqmirage playtennis!

Pipetto, Pipetta has misery unnoticed!

But the strangest thing happened.

Backscuttling for the hopoff, with the odds altogether in favour of his tumbling into the river, Jaun just then I saw to collect from the gentlest weaner among the weiners (who by this were in half droopleaflong mourning for the passing of the last post) the familiar yellow label into which he let fall a drop, smothered a curse, choked a guffaw, spat expectoratiously and blew his own trumpet.

And next thing was he gummalicked the stickyback side and stamped the oval badge of belief to his agnellous brow with a genuine dash of irrepressible piety that readily turned his ladylike typmanzelles capsy curvy (the holy scamp!)

with a half a glance of Irish frisky (a Juan Jaimesan hastaluego) from under the shag of his parallel brows.

It was then he made as if he … but he waved instead a hand across the sea as notice to quit while the pacifettes made their armpacts widdershins (Frida!

Freda!

Paza!

Paisy!

Irene!

Areinette!

Birdomay!

Bentamai!

Sososokky!

Bebebekka!

Bababadkessy!

Ghugugoothoyou!

Dama!

Damadomina!

Takiya!

Tokaya!

Scioccara!

Sciuccherellina!

Peocchia!

Peucchia!

Ho Mi Hoping!

Ha Me Happinice!

Mirra!

Myrha!

Solyma!

Salemita!

Sainta!

Sianta!

O Peace!

), but in selfrighting the balance of his corporeity to reexchange widerembraces with the pillarbosom of the Dizzier he loved prettier, between estellos and venoussas, bad luck to the lie but, when next to nobody expected, their star and gartergazer at the summit of his climax toppled a lipple on to the off and, making a brandnew start for himself to run down his easting by blessing hes sthers with the sign of the southern cross, his bungaloid borsaline with the hedgygreen bound blew off in a loveblast (award for trover!)

and Jawjon Redhead, bucketing after, meccamaniac (the headless shall have legs!

), kingscouriered round with an easy rush and ready relays by the bridge a stadion beyond Ladycastle (and what herm but he narrowly missed fouling her buttress for her but for he acqueducked) and then, cocking a snook at the stock of his sermons, so mear and yet so fahr from that region’s general, away with him at the double, the hulk of a garron, pelting after the road on Shanks’s mare, let off like a wind-hound loose (the bouchal!

you’d think it was that moment they gave him the jambos!)

with a posse of tossing hankerwaves to his windward like seraph’s summonses on the air and a tempest of good things in packetshape teeming from all accounts into the funnel of his fanmail shrimpnet, along the highroad of the nation, Traitors’ Track, following which fond floral fray he was quickly lost to sight through the statuemen, though without a doubt he was all the more on that samehead to memory dear, while Sickerson, that borne of bjoerne, la garde auxiliaire, she murmured, hellyg Ursulinka, full of woe (and how fitlier should Goodboy’s hand be shook than by the warmin of her besom that wrung his swaddles?

): Where maggot Harvey kneeled till bags?

Ate Andrew coos hogdam farvel!

Whethen, now, may the good people speed you, rural Haun, export stout fellow that you are, the crooner born with sweet wail of evoker, healing music, ay, and heart in hand of Shamrogueshire!

The googoos of the suckabolly in the rockabeddy are become the copiosity of wiseableness of the friarylayman in the pulpitbarrel.

May your bawny hair grow rarer and fairer, our own only wideheaded boy!

Rest your voice!

Feed your mind!

Mint your peas!

Coax your qyous!

Come to Lisdoonblarney and walk our groves so charming and see again the sweet rockclose where first you hymned O Chiesa Mia!

And touch the light theorbo!

Songster, angler, choreographer!

Piper to prisoned!

Musicianship made Embrassador-at-Large!

Good by nature and natural by design, had you but been spared to us, Hauneen lad, but sure where’s the use my talking quicker when I know you’ll hear me all astray?

My long farewell I send to you, fair dream of sport and game and always something new.

Gone is Haun!

My grief, my ruin!

Our Joss-el-Jovan!

Our Chris-na-Murty!

’Tis well you’ll be looked after from last to first as yon beam of light we follow receding on your photophoric pilgrimage to your antipodes in the past, you who so often consigned your distributory tidings of great joy into our nevertoolatetolove box, mansuetudinous manipulator, victimisedly victorihoarse, dearest Haun of them all, you of the boots, true as a die, stepwalker, pennyatimer, lampaddyfair, postanulengro, our rommanychiel!

Thy now palewaning light lucerne we ne’er may see again.

But could it speak how nicely would it splutter to the four cantons praises be to thee, our pattern sent!

For you had—may I, in our, your and their names, dare to say it?—the nucleus of a glow of zeal of soul of service such as rarely, if ever, have I met with in single men.

Numerous are those who, nay, there are a dozen of folks still unclaimed by the death angel in this country of ours today, humble indivisibles in this grand continuum, overlorded by fate and interlarded with accidence, who, while there are hours and days, ere he retourneys postexilic, will fervently pray to the Spirit above that they may never depart this earth of theirs till in his long run, from that place where the day begins, on that day that belongs to joyful Ireland, the people that is of all time, the old old oldest, the young young youngest, after decades of longsuffering and decennia of briefglory, to mind us of what was when and to matter us of the whithering of our whys, their Janyouare Fibyouare wins true from Sylvester and (only Waltzer himself is like Waltzer, whimsicalissimo they go murmurand) comes marching ahome on the summer crust of the flagway.

Life, it is true, will be a blank without you because avicuum’s not there at all, to nomore cares from nomad knows, ere Molochy wars bring the devil era, a slip of the time between a date and a ghostmark, rived by darby’s chilldays embers, spatched fun Juhn that dandyforth, from the night we are and feel and fade with to the yesterselves we tread to turnupon.

But, boy, you did your strong nine furlong mile in slick and slapstick record time and a farfetched deed it was in troth, champion docile with your high bouncing gait of going, and your feat of passage will be contested with you and through you for centuries to come.

The phaynix rose a sun before Erebia sank his smother!

Shoot up on that, bright Bennu bird!

Va faotre!

Eftsoon so too will our own sphoenix spark spirt his spyre and sunward stride the vampante flambe.

Ay, already the sombrer opacities of the gloom are sphanished!

Brave footsore Haun!

Work your progress!

Hold to!

Now!

Win out, ye divil ye!

The silent cock shall crow at last.

The west shall shake the east awake.

Walk while ye have the night, for morn, lightbreak-fastbringer, morroweth whereon every past shall full fost sleep.

Amain.

Lowly, longly, a wail went forth.

Pure Yawn lay low.

On the mead of the hillock he lay, heartsoul dormant mid shadowed landshape, brief wallet to his side, an arm loose by his staff of citron briar, tradition stick-pass-on.

His dream monologue was over, of cause, but his drama parapolylogic had yet to be, affact.

Most distressfully (but, my dear, how successfully!)

to wail he did, his locks of a lucan tinge, quickrich, ripely rippling, unfilleted, those lashbetasselled lids on the verge of closing time, whiles ouze of his side-wiseopen mouth the breath of him evenso languishing as the princeliest treble treacle or lichee chewchow purse could buy.

Yawn in a semiswoon lay awailing and (hooh!)

what helpings of honeyful swoothead and (phew!)

which earpiercing dulcitude!

As were you suppose to go and push with your bluntblank pin in hand upintohis fleshasplush cushionettes of some chubby boybold love of an angel.

Hwoah!

When, as the buzzer brings the light brigade, keeping the home fires burning, so on the churring call themselves came at him, from the westborders of the eastmidlands, three kings of three suits and a crowner, from all their cardinal parts, along the amber way where Brosna’s furzy.

To lift them they did, senators four, by the first quaint skreek of the gloaming, and they hopped it up the mountainy molehill, traversing climes of old times gone by, of the days not worth remembering, inventing some excusethems, any sort, having a sevenply sweat of nightblues moist upon them—feefee!

phopho!!

foorchtha!!!

aggala!!!!

jeeshee!!!!!

paloola!!!!!!

ooridiminy!!!!!!!

Afeard themselves were to wonder at the class of a crossroads puzzler he would likely be, length by breadth nonplussing his thickness, ells upon ells of him, making so many square yards of him, one half of him in Conn’s half but the whole of him nevertheless in Owenmore’s five quarters.

There would he lay till they would him descry, spancelled down upon a blossomy bed at one foul stretch amongst the daffydowndillies, the flowers of narcosis fourfettering his footlights, a halohedge of wild spuds hovering over him, epicures waltzing with gardenfillers, puritan shoots advancing to Aran chiefs.

Phopho!!

The meteorpulp of him, the seamless rainbowpeel.

Aggala!!!!

His bellyvoid of nebulose with his neverstop navel.

Paloola!!!!!!

And his veins shooting melanite phosphor, his creamtocustard cometshair and his asteroid knuckles, ribs and members.

Ooridiminy!!!!!!!

His electrolatiginous twisted entrails belt.

Those four claymen clomb together to hold their sworn starchamber quiry on him.

For he was ever their quarrel, the way they would see themselves when they would see themselves, everybug his bodiment atop of annywom her notion, and the meet of their night was worth two of his morning.

Up to the esker ridge it was, Mullingar parish, to a mead that was not far, the son’s rest.

First klettered Shanator Gregory, seeking spoor through the deep timefield; then Shanator Lyons, trailing the wavy line of his partitional footsteps (something in his blisters was telling him all along how he had been in that place one time); then His Recordership, Dr Shunadure Tarpey, caperchasing after honourable sleep, hot on to the aniseed; and, up out of his prompt corner, old Shunny Mac, Shunny MacDougal the hiker, in the rere of them on the run to make a quorum.

Roping their ass he was, their skygrey globetrotter, by way of an afterthought, and by no means legless either for such sprouts on him they were that much oneven it was tumbling he was by four lengths, within the bawl of a mascot, kuss yuss, kuss cley, patsy watsy, like the kapr in the kabisses, the big ass, to hear with his unaided ears the harp in the air, the bugle dianablowing, wild as wild, the mockingbird whose word is misfortune, so ’tis said, the bulbul down the wind.

The proto was traipsing through the tangle then, Mathew Walker, godsons’ goddestfar, deputising for gossipocracy, and his station was a few perch to the weatherside of the knoll Asnoch and it was from no other place unless there, how and ever, that he proxtended aloof upon the ether Mesmer’s Manuum, the hand making silence.

The buckos beyond on the lea then stopped wheresoever they found their standings and that way they set ward about him, doing obedience, nod, bend, bow and curtsey, like the watchers of Prospect, upholding their broadawake probers’ hats on their firrum heads, the travelling court on its findings circuiting that personer in his fallen.

And a crack quatyouare of stenoggers they made of themselves, solons and psychomorers, all told, with their hurts and daimons, spites and clops, not even to the seclusion of their beast by them that was the odd trick of the pack, trump and no friend of carrots.

And, what do you think, who above all other persons should be laying there forenenst them only Yawn!

All of asprawl he was laying too amengst the poppies and, I can tell you something more than that, drear writer, profoundly as you may bedeave to it, he was oscasleep asleep.

And it was far more similar to a satrap he lay there with unctuous beauty, by satellites all surrounded, the poser, or for whatall I know like the Lord Lumen coaching his preferred constellations in faith and doctrine, for old Matt Gregory ’tis he had the starmenagerie: Marcus Lyons and Lucas Metcalfe Tarpey and the mack that never forgave the ass that lurked behind him, Johnny na Hossaleen.

More than their good share of their five senses ensorcelled you would say themselves were, fuming censor, the way they could not rightly tell their heels from their stools, as they cooched down a mamalujo by his cubical crib, as question time drew nighing and the map of the souls’ groupography rose in relief within their quarterings, to play tops or kites or hoops or marbles, curchycurchy, gawking on him for the issuance of his pnum and softnoising one of them to another one, the boguaqueesthers.

And it is what they began to say to him tetrahedrally then, the masters, what way was he.

— He’s giving, the wee bairn.

Yun has lived.

— Yerra, why dat, my leader?

— Wisha, is he boosed or what, alannah?

— Or his wind’s from the wrong cut, says Ned of the Hill.

