Ptuh!

What a zeit for the goths!

vented the Ondt, who, not being a sommerfool, was thothfolly making chilly spaces at hisphex affront of the icinglass of his windhame, which was cold antitopically Nixnixundnix.

We shall not come to that lopp’s party, he decided possibly, for he is not on our social list.

Nor to Ba’s berial nether, thon sloghard, this oldeborre’s yaar, ablong as there’s a khul on a khat.

Nefersenless, when he had safely looked up his ovipository, he loftet hails and prayed: May he me no voida water!

Seekit Hatup!

May no he me tile pig shed on!

Suckit Hotup!

As broad as Beppy’s realm shall flourish my reign shall flourish!

As high as Heppy’s hevn shall flurrish my haine shall hurrish!

Shall grow, shall flourish!

Shall hurrish!

Hummum.

The Ondt was a weltall fellow, raumybult and abelboobied, bynear saw altitudinous wee a schelling in kopfers.

He was sair sair sullemn and chairmanlooking when he was not making spaces in his psyche, but (laus!)

when he wore making spaces on his ikey he ware mouche mothst secred and muravyingly wisechairmanlooking.

Now whim the sillybilly of a Gracehoper had jingled through a jungle of love and debts and jangled through a jumble of life in doubts afterworse, wetting with the bimblebeaks, drikking with nautonects, bilking with durrydunglecks and horing after ladybirdies (ichnehmon diagelegenaitoikon), he fell joust as sieck as a sexton and tantoo pooveroo quant a churchprince, and wheer the midges to wend hemsylph or vosch to sirch for grub for his corapusse or to find a hospes, alick, he wist gnit!

Bruko dry!

Fuko spint!

Sultamont osa bare!

And volomundo osi videvide!

Nichtsnichtsundnichts!

Not one pickopeck of muscowmoney to bag a tittlebits of beebread!

Iomio!

Iomio!

Crick’s corbicule, which a plight!

O moy Bog, he contrited with melanctholy, Me blizzered, him sluggered!

I am heartily hungry!

He had eaten all the whilepaper, swallowed the lustres, devoured forty flights of styearcases, chewed up all the mensas and seccles, ronged the records, made mundballs of the ephemerids and vorasioused most glutinously with the very timeplace in the ternitary—not too dusty a cicada of neuteriment for a chittinous chip so mity.

But when Chrysalmas was on the bare branches, off he went from Tingsomingenting.

He took a round stroll and he took a stroll round and he took a round strollagain till the grillies in his head and the leivnits in his hair made him thought he had the Tossmania.

Had he twicycled the sees of the deed and trestraversed their revermer?

Was he come to hevre with his engiles or gone to hull with the poop?

The June snows was flocking in thuckflues on the hegelstomes, millipeeds of it and myriopoods, and a lugly whizzling tournedos, the Boraborayellers, blohablasting tegolhuts up to tetties and ruching sleets off the coppeehouses, playing ragnowrock rignewreck, with an irritant, penetrant, siphonopterous spuk.

Grausssssss!

Opr!

Grausssssss!

Opr!

The Gracehoper, who, though blind as batflea, yet knew, not a leetle beetle, his good smetterling of entymology, asped nissunitimost lous nor liceens but promptly tossed himself in the vico, phthin and phthir, on top of his buzzer, tezzily wondering wheer would his aluck alight or boss of both appease, and the next time he makes the aquinatance of the Ondt after this they have met theirselves, these mouschical umsummables, it shall be motylucky if he will beheld not a world of differents.

Behailed His Gross the Ondt, prostrandvorous upon his dhrone, in his Papylonian babooshkees, smolking a spatial beetler brunt of Hosana cigals, with unshrinkables farfalling from his unthinkables, swarming of himself in his sunnyroom, sated before his comfortumble phullupsuppy of a plate o’ monkynous and a confucion of minthe (for he was a conformed aceticist and aristotaller), as appi as a oneysucker or a baskerboy on the Libido, with Floh biting his big thigh and Luse lugging his luff leg and Bienie bussing him under his bonnet and Vespatilla blowing cosy fond tutties up the allabroad length of the large of his smalls.

As entomate as intimate could pinchably be.

Emmet and demmet and be jiltses crazed and be jadeses whipt!

schneezed the Gracehoper, aguepe with ptchjelasys and at his wittol’s indts, What have eyeforsight!

The Ondt, that true and perfect host, a spiter aspinne, was making the greatest spass a body could with his queens laceswinging, for he was spizzing all over him like thingsumanything in formicolation, boundlessly blissfilled in an allallahbath of houris.

He was ameising himself hugely at crabround and marypose, chasing Floh out of charity and tickling Luse, I hope too, and tackling Bienie, faith as well, and jucking Vespatilla jukely by the chimiche.

Never did Dorsan from Dunshanagan dance it with more devilry!

The veripatetic imago of the impossible Gracehoper on his odderkop in the myre, after his thrice ephemeral journeeys, sans mantis ne shoos, featherweighed animule, actually and presumptuably sinctifying chronic’s despair, was sufficiently and probably coocoo much for his chorous of gravitates.

Let him be Artalone the Weeps with his parisites peeling off him, I’ll be Highfee the Crackasider.

Flunkey Footle furloughed foul, writing off his phoney, but Conte Carme makes the melody that mints the money.

Ad majorem l.s.d!

Divi gloriam.

A darkener of the threshold?

Haru!

Orimis, capsizer of his antboat, sekketh rede from Evil-it-is, lord of loaves in Amongded.

Be it!

So be it!

Thou-who-thouart, the fleet-as-spindhrift, impfang thee of mine wideheight.

Haru!

The thing pleased him andt, andt, andt He larved onn he larved onn he merd such a nauses The Gracehoper feared he would mixplace his fauces.

I forgive you, grondt Ondt, said the Gracehoper, weeping, For their sakes of the sakes you are safe in whose keeping.

Teach Floh and Luse polkas, show Bienie where’s sweet And be sure Vespatilla fines fat ones to heat.

As I once played the piper I must now pay the count So saida to Moyhammlet and marhaba to your Mount!

Let who likes lump above so what flies be a full ’un; I could not feel moregruggy if this was prompollen.

I pick up your reproof, the horsegift of a friend, For the prize of your save is the price of my spend.

Can castwhores pulladeftkiss if oldpollocks forsake ’em Or Culex feel etchy if Pulex don’t wake him?

A locus to loue, a term it t’embarrass, These twain are the twins that tick Homo Vulgaris.

Has Aquileone nort winged to go syf Since the Gwyfyn we were in his farrest drewbryf And that Accident Man not beseeked where his story ends Since longsephyring sighs sought heartseast for their orience?

We are Wastenot with Want, precondamned, two and true, Till Nolans go volants and Bruneyes come blue.

Ere those gidflirts now gadding you quit your mocks for my gropes An extense must impull, an elapse must elopes.

Of my tectucs takestock, tinktact, and ail’s weal; As I view by your farlook hale yourself to my heal.

Partiprise my thinwhins whiles my blink points unbroken on Your whole’s whereabroads with Tout’s tightyright token on.

My in risible universe youdly haud find Sulch oxtrabeeforeness meat soveal behind.

Your feats end enormous, your volumes immense (May the Graces I hoped for sing Your Ondtship song sense!

), Your genus its worldwide, your spacest sublime!

But, Holy Saltmartin, why can’t you beat time?

In the name of the former and of the latter and of their holocaust.

Allmen.

— Now?

How good you are in explosition!

How farflung is your fokloire and how velktingeling your volupkabulary!

Qui vive sparanto qua muore contanto.

O foibler, O flip, you’ve that wandervogl wail withyin!

It falls easily upon the earopen and goes down the friskly shortiest like treacling tumtim with its tingtingtaggle.

The blarneyest blather in all Corneywall!

But could you, of course, decent Lettrechaun (to change your name if not your nation), we knew, while still in the barrel, read the strangewrote anaglyptics of those Shemletters patent for His Christian’s Em?

— Greek!

Hand it to me!

Shaun replied plosively, pointing to the cinnamon quistoquill behind his acoustrolobe.

I’m as afterdusk nobly Roman as pope and water could christen me.

Look at that for a ridingpin!

I am, thing Sing Larynx, letterpotent to play the sem backwards like Oscan wild or inshant Persse transluding from the Otherman or off the Toptic off the types of my finklers in the draught or with buttles, with my oyes thickshut and all.

But, hellas, it is harrobrew bad on the corns and callouses.

As far as that goes I associate myself with your remark just now from theodicy re furloined notepaper and quite agree in your prescriptions for indeed I am, pay Gay, in juxtaposition to say it is not a nice production.

It is a pinch of scribble.

Not worth a bottle of cabbis.

Overdrawn!

Puffedly offal tosh!

Besides, it’s auctionable, all about crime and libel!

Nothing beyond clerical horrors et omnibus to be entered for the foreign as secondclass matter.

The fuellest filth ever fired since Charley Lucan’s!

Flummery is what I would call it if you were to ask me to put it on a single dimension what pronounced opinion I might orally have about them bagses of trash which the mother and Mr Unmentionable (O, breed not his same!)

has reduced to writing without making news out of my sootynemm.

When she slipped under her couchman.

And where he made a cat with a peep.

How they wore two madges on the makewater.

And why there were treefellers in the shruburbs.

Then he hawks his handmud figgers from Francie to Fritzie down in the kookin.

Phiz is me mother and Hair’s me father, Bauv Betty Famm and Pig Pig Pike.

Their livetree (may it flourish!)

by their ecotaph (let it stayne!).

With balsinbal bimbies swarming tiltop.

Comme bien!

Comme bien!

Feefeel!

Feefeel!

And the Dutches dyin loffin at his pon peck de Baree.

And all the mound reared!

Till he wot not wot to begin he should.

An infant sailing eggshells on the floor of a wet day would have more sabby.

Letter, carried of Shaun, son of Hek, written of Shem, brother of Shaun, uttered for Alp, mother of Shem, for Hek, father of Shaun.

Initialled.

Gee.

Gone.

29 Hardware Saint.

Lendet till Laonun.

Baile-Atha-Cliath.

31 Jan. 11.32 A.D.

Here Commerces Enville.

Tried Apposite House.

13 Fitzgibbets.

Loco.

Dangerous.

Tax 9d.

B. L. Guineys, esqueer.

L.B.

Not known at 1132 a.

12 Norse Richmound.

Nave unlodgeable.

Loved noa’s dress.

Sinned, Jetty Pierrse.

Noon sick parson.

92 Windsewer.

Ave. No such no.

Vale.

Finn’s Hot.

Exbelled from 1014 d. Pulldown.

Fearview.

Opened by Miss Take.

965 nighumpledansextiffits.

Shout at Site.

Roofloss.

Fit Dunlop and Be Satisfied.

Mr Domnall O’Domnally.

Q.V.

8 Royal Terrors.

None so strait.

Shutter up.

Dining with the Danes.

Removed to Philip’s Burke.

At sea.

D.E.D.

Place scent on.

Clontalk.

Father Jacob, Rice Factor.

3 Castlewoos.

P.V.

Arrusted.

J.P.

Converted to Hospitalism.

Ere the March past of Civilisation.

Once Bank of Ireland’s.

Return to City Arms.

2 Milchbroke.

Wrongly spilled.

Traumcondraws.

Now Bunk of England’s.

Drowned in the Laffey.

Here.

The Reverest Adam Foundlitter.

Shown geshotten.

7 Streetpetres.

Since Cabrank.

Seized of the Crownd.

Well, Sir Arthur.

Buy Patersen’s Matches.

Unto his promisk hands.

Blown up last Lemmas by Orchid Lodge.

Search Unclaimed Male.

House Condamned by Ediles.

Back in Few Minutes.

Closet for Repeers.

60 Shellburn.

Key at Kate’s.

Kiss.

Isaac’s Butt, Poor Man.

Dalicious arson.

Caught.

Missing.

Justiciated.

