Pugger old Pumpey O’Dungaschiff!

There will be a hen collection of him after avensung on the field of Hanar.

Dumble down, looties and gengstlermen!

Dtin dtin, dtin dtin!]

BUTT (with a gisture expansive of Mr Lhugewhite Cadderpollard with sunflawered beautonhole pulled up point blanck by mailbag mundaynism at Oldbally Court though the hissindensity backfar of his melovelance tells how when he was fast marking his first lord for cremation the whyfe of his bothem was the very lad’s thing to elter his mehind): Prostatates, pujealousties!

Dovolnoisers, prayshyous!

Defense in every circumstancias of deboutcheries no the chaste daffs!

Packpickets, pioghs and kughs to be palseyputred!

Be at the peme, prease, of not forgetting or mere betoken yourself to hother prace!

Correct me, pleatze commando, for cossakes but I abjure of it.

No more basquibezigues for this pole aprican!

With askormiles’ eskermillas.

I had my billyfell of duckish delights the whole pukny time on rawmeots and juliannes with their lambstoels in my kiddeneys and my ramsbutter in their sassenacher ribs, knee her, do her and trey her, when th’osirian cumb dumb like the whalf on the fiord and we preying players and pinching peacesmokes, troupkers tomiatskyns all, for Father Petrie Spence of Parishmoslattary to go and leave us and the crimsend daun to shellalite on the darkumen (scene as signed, Slobabogue), feeding and sleeping on the huguenottes (the snuggest spalniel’s where the lieon’s tame!)

and raiding revolations over the allbegeneses (sand us and saint us and sound as agun!).

Yet still in all, spit for spat, like we chantied on Sunda schoon, every warson wearrier kaddies a komnate in his schnapsack and unlist I am getting foegutfulls of the rugiments of savaliged wildfire I was gamefellow willmate and send us victorias with nowells and brownings, dumm, sneak and curry, and all the fun I had in that fanagan’s week.

A strange man wearing abarrel.

And here’s a gift of meggs and teggs.

And as I live by chipping nortons.

And ’tis iron fits the farmer, ay.

Arcdesedo!

Renborumba!

Them were the hellscyown days for our fellows, the loyal leibsters, and we was the redugout rawrecruitioners, praddies three and prettish too, a wheeze we has in our wayndward islands, wee engrish, one long blue streak, jisty and pithy af durck rosolun, with hand to hand as Homard Kayenne was always jiggilyjugging about in his wendowed courage when our woos with the wenches went wined for a song, tsingirillies’ zyngarettes, while Woodbine Willie, so popiular with the popprossies, our Chorney Choplain, blued the air.

Sczlanthas!

Banzaine!

Bissbasses!

S. Pivorandbowl!

And we all tuned in to hear the topmast noviality.

Up the revels, drown the rinks and almistips all round!

Paddy Bonhamme he vives!

Encore!

And tig for tag.

Togatogtug.

My droomodose days I loved you abover all thistrest.

Blowhole brasshat and boy with his boots off and the butch of our bunch and all.

It was buckoo bonzer, beleeme.

I was a bare prive without my doglegs but I did not give to one humpenny dump, wingh or wangh, touching those thusengaged slavey generales of Tanah Kornalls, the meelisha’s deelishas, pronouncing their very flank movemens in sunpictorsbosk.

Baghus the whatwar!

I could always take good cover of myself.

And, eyedulls or earwakers, preyers for rain or comminations, I did not care three tanker’s hoots (sham!

hem!

or chaffit!)

for any feelings from my lifeprivates on their reptrograd leanins because I have Their Honours booth my respectables soeurs assistershood off Lyndhurst Terrace, the puttih Misses Celana Dalems, and she in vinting her angurr can belle the troth on her alliance and I know His Heriness, my respeaktoble medams culonelle on Mellay Street, Lightnints Gundhur Sawabs, and they would never as the aimees of servation let me down.

Not on your bludger life, touters!

No peeping, pimpadoors!

And, by Jova, I never went wrong nor let him doom till, risky wark rasky wolk, at the head of the wake, up come stumblebum (ye olde cottemptable!

), his urssian gemenal, in his scutt’s rudes unreformed and he went before him in that nemcon enchelonce with the same old domstoole story and his upleave the fallener as is greatly to be petted (whitesides do his beard!)

and I seen his brichashert’s offensive and his boortholomas vadnhammaggs vise a vise them scharlot runners and how they gave love to him and how he took the ward from us (odious!

the fly fly flurtation of his him and hers!

just mairmaid maddeling it was it he was!)

and, my oreland for a rolvever, sord, by the splunthers of colt and bung goes the enemay, the Percy rally got me, messger (as true as theirs an Almagnian Gothabobus!)

to blow the grand off his aceupper.

Thistake, it’s meest!

And after meath the dulwich.

We insurrectioned and, be the procuratress of the hory synnotts, before he could tell pullyirragun to parrylewis, I shuttm, missus, like a wide sleever!

Hump to dump!

Tumbleheaver!

TAFF (camelsensing that sonce they have given bron a nuhlan the volkar boastsung is heading to sea vermelhion but too wellbred not to ignore the unzemlianess of his rifal’s preceedings, in an effort towards autosotorisation effaces himself in favour of the idiology alwise behounding his lumpy hump off homosodalism which means that if he has lain amain to lolly his liking—cabronne!—he may pops lilly a young one to his herth—combrune!

): Oholy rasher, I’m believer!

And Oho bullyclaver of ye, bragadore-gunneral!

The grand ohold spider!

It is a name to call to him.

Umsturdum Vonn!

Ah, you were shutter reshottus and sieger besieged.

Aha race of fiercemarchands counterination oho of shorpshoopers.

BUTT (miraculising into the Dann Deafir warcry, his bigotes bristling, as, jittinju triggity shittery pet, he shouts his thump and feeh fauh foul finngures up the heighohs of their ahs!

): Bluddymuddymuzzle!

The buckbeshottered!

He’ll umbozzle no more graves nor horne nor haunder, lou garou, for gayl geselles in dead men’s hills!

Kaptan (backsights to his bared!

), His Cumbulent Embulence, the frustrate fourstar Russkakruscan, Dom Allaf O’Khorwan, connundurumchuff.

TAFF (who, asbestas can, wiz the healps of gosh and his bluzzid maikar, has been sulphuring to himsalves all the pungataries of sin praktice in failing to furrow theogonies of the dommed): Trisseme, the mangoat!

And the name of the Most Marsiful, the Aweghost, the Gragious One!

In sobber sooth and in souber civiles?

And to the dirtiment of the curtailment of his all of man?

Notshoh?

BUTT (maoment scoffin, but apoxyomenously deturbaned but thems bleachin banes will be after making a bashman’s haloday out of the euphorious hagiohygiecynicism of his die and be diademmed): Yastsar!

In sabre tooth and sobre saviles!

Senonnevero!

That he leaves nyet is my grafe.

He deared me to it and he dared me do it and bedattle I didaredonit as Cocksnark of Killtork can tell and Ussur Ursussen of the viktaurious onrush with all the rattles in his arctic!

As bold and as madhouse a bull in a meadows.

Knout Kittrick Kinkypeard!

Olefoh, the sourd of foemoe times!

Unknun!

For when meseemim, and tolfoklokken rolland allover ourloud’s lande, beheaving up that sob of tunf for to claimhis, for to wollpimsolff, puddywhuck.

Ay, and intuoning his culophone in an exitous erseroyal Deo Jupto.

At that instullt to Igorladns!

Prronto!

I gave one dobblenotch and I ups with my crozzier.

Mirrdo!

With my bow on armer and hits leg an arrow cockshock rockrogn.

Sparro!

[The abnihilisation of the etym by the grisning of the grosning of the grinder of the grunder of the first lord of Hurtreford expolodotonates through Parsuralia with an ivanmorinthorrorumble fragoromboassity amidwhiches generaluttermosts confussion are perceirable moletons skaping with mulicules while coventry plumpkins fairlygosmotherthemselves in the Landaunelegants of Pinkadindy.

Similar scenatas are projectilised from Hullolullu, Bawlawayo, empyreal Raum and mordern Atems.

They were precisely the twelves of clocks, noon minutes, none seconds.

At someseat of Oldanelang’s Konguerrig, by dawnybreak in Aira.]

TAFF (skimperskamper, his wools gatherings all over cromlin what with the birstol boys artheynes and is it her tour and the crackery of the fullfour fivefirearms and the crockery of their damdam domdom chumbers): Wathall thubulbs uptheaires?

Shattamovick?

BUTT (pulling alast stark daniel with alest doog at doorak while, too greater than pardon, painfully, the issue of his mouth diminuendoing, vility of vilities, he becomes, allasvitally, faint): Shurenoff!

Like Faun MacGhoul!

BUTT and TAFF (desprot slave wager and foeman feodal unsheckled, now one and the same person, their fight upheld to right for a wee while being baffled and tottered, umbraged by the shadow of Old Erssia’s magisquammythical mulattomilitiaman, the living by owning over the surfers of the glebe whose sway craven minnions had caused to revile, as, too foul for hell, under boiling Mauses’ burning brand, he falls by Goll’s gillie, but keenheartened by the circuminsistence of the Parkes O’Rarelys in a hurdly gurdly Cicilian concertone of their fonnafeena barneybrawl, shaken everybothy’s hands, while S. E. Morehampton makes leave to E. N. Sheilmartin after Meetinghouse Lanigan has embaraced Vergemont Hall, and, without falter or mormor or blatherhoot of sophsterliness, pugnate the pledge of fiannaship, dook to dook, with a commonturn oatchd of fest man and best man in which astoutsalliesemoutioun palms it off like commodity tokens against a cococancancacacauotioun): When old the wormd was a gadden and Anthea first unfoiled her limbs wanderloot was the way the wood wagged where opter and apter were samuraised twimbs.

They had their mutthering ivies and their murdhering idies and their mouldhering iries in that muskat grove but there’ll be bright plinnyflowers in Calomella’s cool bowers when the magpyre’s babbletowers scorching and screeching from the ravenindove.

If thees lobed the sex of his head and mees ates the seep of his traublers he’s dancing figgies to the spittle side and shoving outs the soord.

And he’ll be buying buys and go gulling gells with his flossim and jessim of carm, silk and honey while myandthys playing lancifer lucifug and what’s duff as a bettle for usses makes coy cosyn corollanes’ moues weeter to wee.

So till butagain budly shoots thon rising germinal let bodley chow the fatt of his anger and badley bide the toil of his tubb.

[The pump and pipe pingers are ideally reconstituted.

The putther and bowls are peterpacked up.

All the presents are determining as regards for the future the howabouts of their past absences which they might see on at hearing could they once smell of tastes from touch.

To ought find a values for.

The must overlistingness.

When ex what is ungiven.

As ad where.

Stillhead.

Blunk.]

Shutmup.

And bud did doom well right.

And if he sung dumb in his glass darkly speech lit face to face on all around.

Vociferagitant.

Viceversounding.

Namely, Abdul Abulbul Amir or Ivan Slavansky Slavar.

In alldconfusalem.

As to whom the major guiltfeather pertained it was Hercushiccups’ care to educe.

Beauty’s bath she’s bound to bind beholders and Pride, his purge, has place appoint in penance and the law’s own libel lifts and lames the low with the lofty.

Be of the housed!

While the Hersy Hunt they harrow the hill for to rout them rollicking rogues from, rule those racketeer romps from, rein their rockery rides from.

Rambling.

Nightclothesed, arooned, the conquerods sway.

After their battle thy fair bosom.

— That is too too true enough in Solidan’s Islamd as in Moltern Giaourmany and from the Amelakins off to date back to land of engined Egypsians, assented from his opening before his inlookers of where an oxmanstongue stalled stabled the wellnourished one, lord of the seven days, overlord of sats and suns, the sat of all the suns which are in the ring of his system of the sats of his sun, god of the scuffeldfallen skillfilledfelon, who (he contaimns) hangsters, who (he constrains) hersirrs, a gain changful, a mintage vaster, heavy on shirts, lucky with shifts, the topside humpy up stummock atween his showdows fellah, Misto Teewiley Spillitshops, who keepeth watch in Khummer-Phett, whose spouse is An-Lyph, the dog’s bladder, warmer of his couch in fore.

We all, for whole men is lepers, have been nobbut wonterers in that chill childerness which is our true name after the allfaulters (mug’s luck to em!)

and, bespeaking of love and lie detectors in venuvarities, whateither the drugs truth of it, was there an iota omicrone from the faust to the lost.

And that is at most redoubtedly an overthrew of each and ilkermann of us, I persuade myself, before Gow, gentlemen, so true as this are my kopfinpot astrode on these is my boardsoldereds.

It sollecited, grobbling hummley, his roundhouse of seven orofaces, of all, guiltshouters or crimemummers, to be sayd by, codnops, advices for, free of gracies, scamps encloded, competitioning them, if they had steadied Jura or when they had raced Messafissi, husbond of your wifebetter or bestman botchalover of you yourself, how comes ever a body in our taylorised world to selve out thishis, whither it gives a primeum nobilees for our notomise or naught, the farst wriggle from the ubivence, whereom is man, that old offender, nother man, wheile he is asame.

And fullexampling.

The pints in question.

With some byspills.

And sicsecs to provim hurtig.

Soup’s on!

A time.

And a find time.

Whenin aye was a kiddling.

And the tarikies held sowansopper.

Let there beam a frishfrey.

And they sodhe gudhe rudhe brodhe wedhe swedhe medhe in the kauddledrum.

— I have just (let us suppraise) been reading in a (suppressed) book.

It is notwithstempting by meassures long and limited: the latterpress is eminently legligible and the paper, so he eagerly seized upon, has scarsely been buttered in works of previous publicity wholebeit in keener notcase would I turf aside for pastureuration.

Packen paper paineth whomto is sacred scriptured sign.

Who straps it scraps it that might, if ashed, have healped.

Enough, however, have I read of it, like my good bedst friend, to augur in the hurry of the times that it will cocommend the widest circulation and a reputation coextensive with its merits when inthrusted into safe and pious hands upon so edifying a mission as it, I can see, as is his.

It is ambullished with expurgative plates replete in information and accampaigning the action passim, slapbang, whizzcrash, boomarattling from burst to past, as I have just been seeing, with my wormest venerections, of a timmersome townside upthecountrylifer (Guard place the town!

), allthose everwhalmed upon that preposterous blank seat, before the wordcraft of this early woodcutter, a master of vignettiennes and our findest grobsmid among all their orefices (and, shukar in chowdar, so splunderdly english!

), Mr Aubeyron Birdslay.

Chubgoodchob, arsoncheep and wellwillworth a triat!

Bismilla-foulties.

But the hasard you aks is justly behind his meddle throw!

Those sad pour sad forengistanters, dastychappy dustyrust!

Chaichairs.

It is that something, awe, aurorbean in that fellow, hamid and damid (did he have but Hugh de Brassey’s beardslie his wear mine of ancient guised), which comequeers this anywhat perssian which we, owe, realisinus with purups a dard of pene.

There is, among others pleasons whom I love and which are favourests to mind, one which I have pushed my finker in for the movement and, but for my sealring is none to hand I swear, she is highly catatheristic and there is another which I have fombly fongered freequuntly and, when my signet is on sign again I swear, she is deeply sangnificant.

Culpo de Dido!

Ars we say in the classies.

Kunstful, we others said.

What ravening shadow!

What dovely line!

Not the king of this age could richlier eyefeast in oreillental longuardness with alternate nightjoys of a thousand kinds but one kind.

A shahrryar cobbler on me when I am lying!

And whilst (when I doot my sliding panel and I hear cawcaw) I have been idylly turmbing over the loose looves leaflefts jaggled casuallty on the lamatory, as is my this is, as I must commit my lips to make misface for misfortune, often, so far as I can chance to recollect from them some farnights ago (so dimsweet is that selvischdischdienence of to not to be able to be obliged to have to hold further anything than a stone his throw’s fruit’s fall!

), when I, if you will excuse for me this informal leading down of illexpressibles, enlivened toward the Author of Nature by the natural sins liggen gobelimned theirs before me (how differended with the manmade Eonochs Cunstuntonopolies!

), weathered they be of a general golf stature, assasserted, or blossomly emblushing themselves underneed of some howthern folleys, am entrenched up contemplating of myself, wiz my naked I, for relieving purposes in our trurally virvir vergitabale (garden) I sometimes, maybe, what has justly said of old Flannagan, a wake from this or huntsfurwards, with some shock (shell I so render it?)

have (when I ope my shylight window and I see coocoo) a notion quiet involuptary of that I am cadging hapsnots as at murmurrandoms of distend renations from ficsimilar phases or dugouts in the behindscenes of our earthwork (what rovining shudder!

what deadly loom!

), as this is, at no spatial time processly which regards to concrude chronology about which in fact, at spite of I having belittled myself to my gay giftname of insectarian, happy burgages abeyance would make homesweetstown hopeygoalucrey, my mottu propprior, as I claim, cad’s truck, I coined, I am highly pelaged and deeply gluttened to mind hindmost hearts to see by their loudest reports from my threespawn bottery parts (shsh!)

that, columbophile and corvinophobe alike, when I have remassed me, my travelling self, as from Magellanic clouds, after my contractual expanditures, through the perofficies of merelimb, I, my good grief, I am, I am big alltoogooder.

He beached the bark of his tale; and set to husband and vine: and the harpermaster told all the living conservancy, know Meschiameschianah, how that win a gain was in again.

Flying the Perseoroyal.

Withal aboarder, padar and madar, hal and sal, the sens of Ere with the duchtars of Iran.

Amick amack amock in a mucktub.

With the tou loulous and the gryffygryffygryffs, at Fenegans Wick, the Wildemanns.

Washed up whight and deliveried rhight.

Loud lauds to his luckhump and bejetties on jonahs!

And they winxed and wanxed like baillybeacons.

Till we woksed up oldermen.

From whose plultibust preaggravated by baskatchairch theologies (there were nighn on thaurity herouns in that alraschil arthouducks draken), they were whoalike placed to say, in the matters of ducomans nonbar one, with bears’ respects to him and bulls’ acknowledgments (Come on now, girls!

Lead off, O cara, whichever won of you wins!

The two Gemuas and Jane Agrah and the Judy tomboys!

), disassembling and taking him apart, the slammocks, with discrimination for his maypole and a rub in passing over his hump, drogueries inaddendance, frons, fesces and frithstool: 1) he hade to die it, the beetle, 2) he didhithim self, hod’s fush, 3) all ever the pelican huntered with truly fond bullpen backthought since hes toork human life where his personal low outhired his taratoryism, the orenore under the selfhide of his bessermettle, was forsake in his chiltern and lumbojumbo, 4) he was like Fintan fore flood and after sometimes too damned merely often on the saved side, saw he was, 5) regarding to prussyattes or quarzyverzing he wassand no better than he should have been before he could have been better than what he warrant after, 6) blood, musk or haschish, as coked, diamoned or penceloid, and bleaching him naclenude from all cohlorine matter, down to a boneash bittstoff, he’s, tink fors tank, the same old dust-amount on the same old tincoverdull bauble class, totstittywinktosser and bogusbagwindburster, whether fitting tyres onto Danelope boys or fluttering flaus for laurettas, whatever the bucket brigade and the plug party says, touchant Arser of the Rum Tipple and his camelottery and lyonesslooting but with a layaman’s brutstrenth, by Jacohob and Esahur and the all saults of sallies, but what we warms to hear, jeff, is the woods of chirpsies cries to singaloo sweecheeriode and sock him up, the old cant rogue.

Group A.

You have jest (a ham) beamed listening through (a ham pig) his haulted excerpt from John Whitton’s fiveaxled production, The Coach With The Six Insides, from the Tales of Yore of the times gone by before there was a hofdking or a hoovthing or a pinginapoke in Oreland, all souled.

Goes Tory by Eeric Whiggs is To Become Tintinued in Fearson’s Nightly in the Lets All Wake Brickfaced In Lucan.

Lhirondella, jaunty lhirondella!

With tirra lirra rondinelles, atantivy we go!

Attention!

Stand at!!

Ease!!!

We are now diffusing among our lovers of this sequence (toyou!

toyou!)

the dewfolded song of the naughtingels (Alys!

Alysaloe!)

from their sheltered positions in rosescenery haydyng on the heather side of Waldalure, Mount Saint John’s, Jinnyland, whither our allies winged by duskfail from Mooreparque, swift sanctuary seeking, after Sunsink gong (Oiboe!

Hitherzither!

