— Lesten!

— Why so and speak up, do you hear me, you, sir?

— Or he’s rehearsing somewan’s funeral.

— Whisht outathat!

Hubba’s up!

And as they were spreading abroad on their octopuds their drifter nets, the chronies, gleamy seiners’ nets, and, no lie, there was words of assonance being softspoken among those quartermasters.

— Get busy, kid!

— Chirpy, come now!

— The present hospices is a good time.

— I’ll take on that chap.

For it was in the back of their mind’s ear, temptive lissomer, how they would be spreading in quadriliberal their azurespotted fine attractable nets, their nansen nets, from Matt Senior to the thurrible mystagogue after him and from thence to the neighbour and that way to the puisny donkeyman and his crucifer’s cauda.

And in their minds years backslibris so it was, slipping beauty, how they would be meshing that way, when he rose to it with the planckton at play about him, the quavers of scaly silver and their clutches of chromes of the highly lucid spanishing gold, whilst, as hour gave way to mazing hour, with Yawn himself keeping time with his thripthongue, to ope his blurbeous lips he would and let out classy the way myrrh of the moor and molten moonmist would be melding mellifond indo his mouth.

— Y?

— Before you!

— Ecko!

How sweet thee answer makes!

Afterwheres?

In the land of lions’ odor?

— Friends!

— First, if yu don’t mine.

Name yur historical grouns.

— This same prehistoric barrow ’tis, the orangery.

— I see.

Very good now.

It is in your orangery, I take it, you have your letters?

Can you hear here me, you, sir?

— Thorsends.

For my darling.

Typette!

— So long aforetime?

Can you hear better?

— Millions.

For godsends.

For my darling dearling one.

— Now, to come nearer zone, I would like to raise my deuterous point audibly touching this.

There is this maggers.

I am told by our interpreter, Hanner Esellius, that there are fully six hundred and six ragwords in your malherbal Magis landeguage in which wald wand rimes alpman and there is resin in all roots for monarch but yao hace not one pronounceable teerm that blows in all the vallums of Tartallaght to signify majestate, even provisionally, nor no rheda rhoda or torpentine path nor hallucinian via nor Aurellian gape nor sunkin rut nor grossgrown trekk nor crimeslaved cruxway and no moorhen’s cry or mooner’s plankgang there to lead us to hopen-haven.

Is such the unde derivatur casematter, Messio?

Frankly.

Megis megis inerretur mynus hoc intelleyegow.

— How?

C’est mal prononsable, tartagliano, perfrances.

Vos navez pas d’O dong votr boche provenciale, mousoo.

Je m’incline mais Moy, jay trouvay la clee dang les chants.

Hay sham nap paddy velour, come on!

— Hep there!

Commong, sa na pa de valure?

Whu’s teit dans yur jambes?

Whu’s thot inclining and talking about the Messiah so cloover?

A trues to your trefling!

Whure yu?

— Trinathan Partnick Dieudonnay.

Have you seen her?

Typette, my tactile, O!

— Are you in your fatherick, lonely one?

— The same.

Three persons.

Have you seen my darling only one?

I am sohohohold!

— What are yu shevering about, ultramontane, like a houn in hell?

Is there cold on ye, doraphobian?

Or do yu want yur primafairy schoolmam?

— The woods of Fogloot.

O mis padredges!

— Whisht awhile, greylag!

The duck is rising and you’ll wake that stand of plover.

I know that place better than annyone.

Sure, I used to be always over there on the fourth day at my grandmother’s place, Tear-nan-Ogre, my little grey home in the west, in or about Mayo, when the long dogs gave tongue and they coursing the marches and they straining at the leash.

Tortoiseshell for a guineagould!

Burb!

Burb!

Burb!

Follow me up, Tucurlugh!

That’s the place for the claire oysters, Polldoody, County Conway.

I never knew how rich I was, like another story in the zoedone of the zephyros, strolling and strolling and carrying my dragoman, Meath’s marvel, thass withumpronounceable tail, along the shore.

Did you know my cousin, Mr Jasper Dougal that keeps The Anchor on the Mountain, the parson’s son, Jasper of the Tuns, Pat Whateveryournameis?

— Dood and I dood.

The wolves of Fochlut!

By Whydoyoucallme?

Do not flingamejig to the wolves!

— Turcafiera!

That’s a good wan right enough!

Wooluvs no less!

— One moment now, if I foreshoreten the bloss on your bleather.

Encroachement spells erosion.

Dunlin and turnstone augur us where, how and when best as to burial of carcass, fuselage of dump and committal of noisance.

But, since you invocate austers for the trailing of vixens, I would like to send a cormorant around this blue lagoon.

Tell me now this.

You told my larned friend rather previously, a moment since, about this mound or barrow.

Now I suggest to you that ere there was this plagueburrow, as you seem to call it, there was a burial battell, the boat of millions of years.

Would you bear me out in that, relatively speaking?

With her jackstaff jerking at her jennyladders, why not, and sizing a fair sail?

Knowest thou the kind?

The Pourquoi Pas, bound for Weissduwasland, that fourmaster barquentine, Webster says, our ship that ne’er returned.

The Frenchman, I say, was an orange boat.

He is a boat.

You see him.

The both how you see is they!

Draken af Danemork!

Sacked it or ate it?

What?

Hennu!

Spake ab laut!

— Couch, cortege, ringbarrow, dungcairn.

Beseek the runes and see the longurn!

All maun away when ye hear the gonghorn.

And meet Nautsen.

Ess Ess.

O ess.

Warum night!

Conning two lay payees.

Norsker.

Her raven flag was out, the slaver.

I trow pon Good, Jordan’s scaper, Good’s Barnet and Trustyman.

Crouch low, you pigeons three!

Say, call that girl with the tan tress awn!

Call Wolfhound!

Wolf of the sea.

Folchu!

Folchu!

— Very good now.

That’s folklore straight from the ass his mouth.

Now, to come to the midnight middy on this levantine ponenter, I will crusade on with the parent ship, weather prophetting, far away from those green hills.

A station, Ireton tells me, bonafide for keeltappers.

From Daneland sailed the oxeyed man.

Now mark well what I say.

— Magnus Spadebeard, korsets krosser, welsher perfyddye.

A destroyer in our port.

Signed to me with his baling scoop.

Laid bare his breastpaps to give suck, to suckle me.

Ecce hagios chrisman!

— O Jeyses’ fluid!

says the poisoned well.

Futtfishy the First.

Hootch-copper’s enkel at the navel manoeuvres!

— Hep!

Hello there, Bill of Old Bailey!

Whu’s he?

Whu’s this lad wi’ the pups?

— Hunkalus Childared Easterheld.

It’s his lost chance, Emania.

Ware him well!

— Hey!

Did you dream you were ating your own tripe, acushla, that you tied yourself up that wrynecky fix?

— I see now.

We move in the beast circuls.

Grimbarb and pancercrucer!

You took the words out of my mouth.

A child’s dread for a dragon vice-father.

Hillcloud encompass us!

You mean you lived as Milky at their lyceum, couard, while you learned, volp volp, to howl yourself wolfwise.

Dyb!

Dyb!

Do your best!

— I am dob dob dobbling like old Booth’s, courteous.

The cubs are after me, it zeebs, the whole totem pack, vuk vuk and vuk vuk to them, for Robinson’s shield.

— Scents and gouspils!

The animal gangs again!

Find the Fingall harriers!

Here, howl me wiseacre’s hat till I die of the milkman’s lupus!

— Whaat!

Wolfgang!

Whoah!

Taalk very slowo!

— Hail him heathen, heal him holystone!

Courser, recourser, changechild, .........?

Eld as endall, earth ..................?

— A cataleptic mithyphallic!

Was this Totum Fulcrum Est Ancestor yu had in Dies Eirae where no spider webbeth or Anno Mundi ere bawds plied in Skiff Strait?

Be fair, Chris!

— Dream.

On a nonday I sleep.

I dreamt of a somday.

On a wonday I shall wake.

Ah!

May he have now of here fearfilled me!

Sinflowed, O Sinflowed!

Fia!

Fia!

Befurcht Christ!

— I have your tristich now.

It recurs in three times the same differently.

And comming nown from the asphalt to the concrete, from the human historic brute, Finnsen Faynean, occeanyclived, to this same vulcanised hillsir from yours (there is such a fui fui story which obtains of him), Mr Tuppling Toun of Morningside Heights, with his lavas flow and his rambling undergroands, would he reoccur ad horam, as old Romeo Rogers, in city or county, by, with or from an urb, an you’re sure of you know the differenciabus, as brauchbarred in Apabhramsa, sierrah!

We speak of Gun, the farther.

And in the locative.

Bap!

Bap!

— Ouer Tad, Hellig Babbau, whom certayn orbits assertant re humeplace of Chivitats Ei, Smithwick, Rhonnda, Kaledon, Salem (Mass), Childers, Argos and Duthless.

Well, I am advised he might in a sense be both never-moreless every atman like myself, suffix it to say.

Abrahamsk and Brookbear!

By him it was done bapka, by me it was gone into, to whom it will beblive, mushame, mushame!

I am afraid you could not heave ahora one of your own old stepstones, barnabarnabarn, over a stumbledown wall here in Huddlestown to this classic Noctubrr night but itandthey would binge, much as vecious, off the glosshouse back of a racerider in his true-to-flesh colours, either handicapped on her flat or barely repeating himself.

That is a tiptip tim oldy faher now, the man I go in fear of, Tommy Terracotta, and he could be all your and my das, the brodar of the founder of the father of the finder of the pfander of the pfunder of the furst man in Ranelagh.

Fué!

Fué!

Petries and violet ice (I am yam, as Me and Tam Tower used to jagger pemmer it over at the house of Eddy’s Christy, meaning Dodgfather, Dodgson and Coo) and spiriduous sanction!

— Breeze softly.

Aures are aureas.

Hau’s his naun?

— Me das has or oreils.

