
— Asky, asky!

Gau on!

Micaco!

Get!

Ping an ping nwan ping pwan pong.

And he did a get, their anayance, and slink his hook away, aleguere come alaguerre, like a chimista in chamisas, whom the harricana hurries and hotz foots, zingo zango, segur!

To hoots of utskut, urqurd, jamal, qum, yallah, yawash, yak!

For he could ciappacioppachew upon a skarp snakk of pure undefallen engelsk, melanmoon or tartatortoise, tsukisaki or soppisuppon, as raskly and as baskly as your cheesechalk cow cudd spanich.

Makoto!

Whagta kriowday!

Gelagala nausy is.

Yet right divining do not was.

Hovobovo hafogate hokidimatzi ni kamicha!

He had his sperrits all foulen on him; to vet, most griposly, he was bedizzled and debuzzled; he had his tristiest cabaleer on; and he looked like bruddy Hal.

A shelling a cockshy and be donkey shot at?

Or a peso besant to join the armada?

But, Sin Showpanza, could annybroddy which walked this world with eyes whiteopen have looked twinsomer than the kerl he left behind him?

Candidatus, viridosus, aurilucens, sinelab!

Of all the green heroes everwore cotan breiches, the whitemost, the goldenest!

How he stud theirs with himselfs mookst kevinly, and that anterevolitionary, the churchman childfather from tonsor’s tuft to almonder’s toes, a hajjiography in duotrijesumy, son soptimost of sire sixtusks, of Mayaqueenies signosure, hevnly buddhy time, inwreathed of his nearcissies, a mickly dazzley eely oily with looiscurrals, a soulnetzer by zvesdals priestessd, their trail the tractive (and dem dandy-panies knows de play of de eyelids), with his gamecox spurts and his smile likuid glue (the suessiest sourir ever weanling wore), whiles his host of faceful spritties, lusspillerindernees, they went peahenning a ripidarapidarpad around him, pilgrim prinkips, kerilour kevinour, in neuchoristic congressulations, quite purringly excited, rpdrpd, allauding to him by all the licknames in the litany with the terms in which no little dulsy nayer ever thinks about implying except to her future’s yea and sending him perfume-most praypuffs to setisfire more then to teasim (shllwe help, now you’ve massmuled, you t’rigolect a bit?

yismik?

yimissy?)

that he, the finehued, the fairhailed, the farahead, might bouchesave unto each but everyone, asfar as safras durst assune, the havemercyonhurs of his kissier licence.

Meanings: Andure the enjurious till imbettrer.

We know you like Latin with essies impures (and your liber as they sea), we certney like gurgles love the nargleygargley so, arrahbeejee, tell that old frankay boyuk to bellows up the tombucky in his tumtum argan and give us a gust of his gushy old.

Goof!

Hymnumber twentynine.

O, the singing!

Happy little girlycums to have adolphted such an Adelphus!

O, the swingswung hopops so goholden!

They’ve come to chant en chor.

They say their salat, the mahdiens’ prayer to the messiager of His Nabis, prostitating their selfs eachwise and combinedly.

Fateha, fold the hands.

Be it honoured, bow the head.

May thine evings e’en be blossful!

Even of bliss!

As we sohope for ablution.

For the sake of the farbung and of the scent and of the holiodrops.

Amemus.

A long pause.

Their orison arises misquewhite as Osman glory, ebbing wasteward, leaves to the soul of light its fading silence (allahlah lahlah lah!

), a turquewashed sky.

Then: — Xanthos!

Xanthos!

Xanthos!

We think to thine, mighty innocent, that diddest bring it off fuitefuite.

Should in ofter years it became about you will after desk jobduty becoming a bank midland mansioner we and I shall reside with our obeisant servants among Burke’s mobility at La Roserie, Ailesbury Road.

Red bricks are all hellishly good values if you trust to the roster of ads but we’ll save up ourselves and nab what’s nicest and boskiest of timber trees in the nebohood.

Oncaill’s plot.

Luccombe oaks, Turkish hazels, Greek firs, incense palms, edcedras.

The hypsometers of Mount Anville is held to be dying out of arthataxis but, praise send Larix U’Thule, the wych elm of Manelagh is still flourishing in the open because it’s native of our nature and the seeds was sent by Fortune.

We’ll have our private palypeachum pillarposterns for lovesick letterines fondly affianxed to our front railings and swings, hammocks, tighttaught balletlines, accomodationnooks and prismic bathboites to make Envyeyes mouth water and wonder when they binocular us from their embrassured windows in our garden rare.

Fyat-Fyat shall be our number on the autokinaton and Chubby in his Chuffs oursforownly chuffreur.

T will be waiting for uns as I sold U at the first antries.

Our cousin gourmand, Percy, the pup, will denounce the sniffnomers of all callers whereamong our Seemyease Sister, Tabitha, the ninelived, will extend to the full her hearthy welcome.

While the turf and twigs they tattle.

Tintin tintin.

Lady Marmela Shortbred will walk in for supper with her marchpane switch on and her necklace of almonds and her poirette Sundae dress with bracelets of honey and her cochineal hose with the caramel dancings, the briskly best from Booteestown, and her sucking-staπ of ivory mint.

You mustn’t miss it or you’ll be sorry.

Charmeuses chloes, glycering juwells, lydialight fans and puπumed cynarettes.

And the Prince Le Monade has been graciously pleased.

His six chocolate pages will run bugling before him and Cococream toddle after with his sticksword in a pink cushion.

We think His Sparkling Headiness ought to know Lady Marmela.

Luisome his for lissome hers.

He’s not going to Cork till Cantalamesse or mayhope till Rose Easter or Saint Tibble’s Day.

So Niomon knows.

The Fomor’s in his Fin, the Momor’s her and hin.

A paaralone!

A paaralone!

And Dublin’s all adin.

We’ll sing a song of Singlemonth and you’ll too and you’ll.

Here are notes.

There’s the key.

One two three.

Chours!

So come on, ye wealthy gentrymen wib frufrocksfull of fun!

Thin thin!

Thin thin!

Thej olly and thel ively, thou billy with thee coo, for to jog a jig of a crispness nice and sing a missal too.

Hip champouree!

Hiphip champouree!

O you longtailed blackman, polk it up behind me!

Hip champouree!

Hiphip champouree!

And, jessies, push the pumkik round.

Anneliuia!

Since the days of Roamaloose and Rehmoose the pavanos have been strident through their struts of Chapelldiseut, the vaulsies have meed and youdled through the purly ooze of Ballybough, many a mismy cloudy has tripped taintily along that hercourt strayed reelwey and the rigadoons have held ragtimed revels on the plateauplain of Grangegorman; and, though since then sterlings and guineas have been replaced by brooks and lions and some progress has been made on stilths and the races have come and gone and Thyme, that chef of seasoners, has made his usual astewte use of endadjustables and whatnot willbe isnor was, those danceadeils and cancanzanies have come stimmering down for our begayment through the bedeafdom of po’s taeorns, the obcecity of pa’s teapucs, as lithe and limbfree limber as when momie mummed at ma.

Just so stylled with the nattes are their flowerheads now and each of all has a lovestalk ownto herself and the tot of all of the tits of their understamens is as open as he can posably she and is tournesoled straightcut or sidewaist, accordant to the coursets of things feminite, towooerds him in heliolatry, that they may catchcup in their calyzettes, alls they go troping, those parryshoots from his muscalone pistil, for he can eyespy through them to their selfcolours, nevertheleast their tissue peepers (meaning Mullabury mesh, the time of appling flowers, a guarded figure of speech, a variety of perfume, a bridawl, seamist inso one), as leichtly as see saw (O my goodmiss!

O my greatmess!

O my prizelestly preshoes!

), while, dewyfally as dimb dumbelles, all alisten to his elixir.

Lovelyt!

And they said to him: — Enchainted, dear sweet Stainusless, young confessor, dearer dearest, we herehear, aboutobloss, O coelicola, thee salutamt.

Pattren of our unschoold, pageant master, deliverer of softmissives, round the world in forty mails, bag, belt and balmybeam, our barnaboy, our chepachap, with that pampipe in your putaway, gab borab, when you will be after doing all your sightseeing and soundhearing and smellsniffing and tastytasting and tenderumstouchings in all Daneygaul, send us, your adorables, thou overblaseed, a wise and letters play of all you can ceive of, chief celtech chappy, from your holy post now that you hast ascertained ceremonially our names.

Unclean you art not.

Outcaste thou are not.

Leperstower, the karman’s loki, has not blanched at your pollution and your intercourse at ninety legsplits does not defile.

Untouchable is not the scarecrown is on you.

You are pure.

You are pure.

You are in your puerity.

You have not brought stinking members into the house of Amanti.

Elleb Inam, Titep Notep, we name them to the Hall of Honour.

Your head has been touched by the god Enel-Rah and your face has been brightened by the goddess Aruc-Ituc.

Return, sainted youngling, and walk once more among us!

The rains of Demani are masikal as of yere.

And Baraza is all aflower.

Siku of calmy days.

As shiver as shower can be.

Our breed and better class is in brood and bitter pass.

Labbeycliath longs.

But we’re counting on the cluck.

The Great Cackler comes again.

Sweetstaker, Abel lord of all our haloease, wee toutes (to be slightly more femmiliar perhips than is slickly more then nacessory), philomelas as well as magdalenes, were drawpairs with two pinmarks, BVD and BVD dot, so want lotteries of ticklets posthastem (you appreciate that?)

so as to be very dainty, if an isaspell, and so as to be verily dandydainty, if an ishibilley, of and on, to and for, by and with, from you.

Let the hitback hurry his wayward ere the missive has time to take herself off, ’twill be o’erthemore wilfully intomeet if the coming offence caused our shudders before.

We ſeem to have being elſewhere as tho’ th’ had paſs’d in our ſuſpenſe.

Next to our shrinking selves we love sensitivas best.

For they are the Angèles.

Brick, fauve, jonquil, sprig, fleet, nocturne, smiling bruise.

For they are an Angèle’s garment.

We will be constant (what a word!)

and bless the day, for whole hours too, yes, for sold long syne as we shall be being in our created being of ours elvishness, the day you befell, you dreadful temptation!

Now promisus as at our requisted you will remain ignorant of all what you hear and, though if whilst disrobing to the edge of risk (the bisifings in idolhours that satinfines tootoo!

), draw a veil till we next time!

You don’t want to peach but bejimboed if ye do!

Perhelps.

We ernst too may.

How many months or how many years till the myriadth and first become!

Bashfulness be tupped!

May he colp, may he colp her, may he mixandmass colp her!

Talk with a hare and you wake of a tartars.

That’s mus.

Says the Law.

List!

Kicky Lacey, the pervergined, and Bianca Mutantini, her conversa, drew their fools longth finnishfurst, Herzog van Vellentam, but me and meother ravin, my coosine of mine, have mour good three chancers, weothers, after Bohnaparts.

The mything smile of me, my wholesole assumption, shes nowt mewithout as weam twin herwithin, that I love like myselfish, like smithereen’s robinsongs, like juneses’ nutslost, like the blue of the sky if I stoops fore to spy between my whiteyoumightcallimbs.

How their duel makes their triel!

Eer’s wax for Sur Soord, dongdong bollets for the iris riflers, queemswellth of coocome in their combs for the jennyjos.

Caro caressimus!

Honey swarms where mellisponds.

Will bee all buzzy one another minnies for the mere effect that you are so fulled of pollen yourself.

Teomeo!

Daurdour!

We feel unspeechably thoughtless over it all here in Gizzygazelle Park’s bimboowood so pleasekindly communicake with the original sinse we are only yearning as yet how to burgeon.

It’s meant milliems of centiments dead, lost or mislaid on them but, master of snakes, we can sloughchange in the nip of a napple solongas we can allsee for deedsetton your quick.

By the hook in your look we’re eyed for aye were you begging the questuan with your lutean bowl round Monkmesserag.

And whenever you’re tingling in your trout we’re sure to be tangled in our ticements.

It’s game, it’s game, ma chère, be off with your shepherdress on!

Upsome cauda!

Behose our handmades for the lured!

To these nunce we are but yours in ammatures yet well come that day we shall ope to be ores.

Then shalt thou see, seeing, the sight.

No more hoaxites!

Nay more gifting in mennage!

A her’s fancy for a his friend and then that fellow yours after this follow ours.

Vania, Vania Vaniorum, Domne Vanias!

Hightime is up: be it down into outs according!

When there shall be foods for vermin as full as feeds for the fett, eat on hearth as there’s hot in oven.

When every Klitty of a scolderymeid shall hold every yardscullion’s right to stimm her uprecht for whimsoever, whetther on privates, whatther in publics.

And when all us romance catholeens shall have ones for all amanseprated.

And the world is maidfree.

Methanks.

So much for His Meignysthy Man!

And all his bigattens.

So till Coquette to tell Cockotte to teach Connie Curley to touch Cattie Hayre and tip Carminia to tap La Chérie though where the diggings he’s dweellst amongst us here’s nobody knows save Mary.

Whyfor we go ringing hands in hands in gyrogyrorondo.

These bright elects, consentconsorted, they were waltzing up their will-side with their princesome handsome angeline chiuff while in those wherebus there wont bears way (mearing unknown, a place where pigeons carry fire to seethe viands, a miry hill, belge end sore footh) oaths and screams and bawley groans with a belchybubhub and a hellabelow bedemmed and bediabbled the arimaining lucisphere.

Helldsdend, whelldselse!

Lonedom’s breach lay foulend up uncouth not be brooched by punns and reedles.

Yet the ring gayed rund rorosily with a drat you for a brat you.

Yasha Yash ate sassage and mash, and so foor shay bash, poor Yasha Yash.

And you wonna make one of our micknick party.

No honaryhuest on our sposhialiste.

For poor Glugger was dazed and late in his crave, ay he, laid in his grave.

But low, boys, low he rises, shrivering, with his spittyful eyes and his whoozebecome woice.

Ephthah!

Cisamis!

Examen of conscience scruples now he to the best of his memory schemado.

Nu mere for ever siden on the stolen.

With his tumescinquinance in the thight of his tumstull.

No more singing all the dags in his seng ageng.

Experssly at hand counterhand.

Trinitatis kink had mudded his dome, peccat and pent fore pree.

Hymserf, munchaowl, maden, born of thug tribe into brood blackmail, dooly redecant all-bigenesis’ henesies.

He, by bletchendmacht of the golls, proforhim penance and come off enternatural.

He, selfsufficiencer, eggscumuddher-in-chaff sporticolorissimo, what though the duthsthrows in his lavabad eyes, make-tomake polentay rossum, after Aasdocktor Talop’s onamuttony legture, out of bianconies, hiking ahake like any nudgemenoughgorude all over Terra-cuta.

No more throw acids, face all lovabilities, appeal for the union and play for tirnitys.

He, praise Saint Calembaurnus, make clean breastsack of goody girl now as ever drank milksoep from a spoen, weedhearted boy of potter and mudder, chip off old Flinn the Flinter, twig of the hider that tanned him.

He go calaboosh all same he tell him out.

Teufteuf man he strip him all mussymussy calico blong him all same he tell him all out how he make what name.

He, through wolkenic connection, relation belong this remarkable moliman, Anaks Andrum, parleyglutton, pure blood Jebusite, centy procent Erserum spoking.

Drugmallt storehuse.

Intrance on back.

Most open on the laydays.

He, A.

A., in peachskin shantungs, possible, sooth to say, notwithstanding far former guiles and he gaining fish considerable, by saving grace after avalunch, even while lossassinated by summan, to look most prophitable with glazzy okodoko allserene out of smily skibluh eyes.

He repeat of him as pious alios cos he ast for shave and haircut people said he’d shape of hegoat where he just was sheep of herrgott with his tile togged.

Top.

Not true what chronicles is bringing his portemanteau priamed full potatowards.
