
When we sleep.

Drops.

But wait until our sleeping.

Drain.

Sdops.

As the lion in our teargarten remembers the nenuphars of his Nile (shall Ariuz forget Arioun or Boghas the baregams of the Marmarazalles from Marmeniere?)

it may be, tots wearsense full a naggin in twentyg have sigilposted what in our brievingbust, that the besieged bedreamt him still and solely of those lililiths undeveiled which had undone him, gone for aye, and knew not the watchful treachers at his wake, and theirs to stay.

Fooi, fooi, chamermissies!

Zeepyzoepy, larcenlads!

Zijnzijn zijnzijn!

It may be, we moest ons hasten selves te declareer it, that he reglimmed?

presaw?

the fields of heat and yields of wheat where corngold Ysit?

shamed and shone.

It may be, we habben to upseek a bitty door our good township’s courants want we knew’t, that with his deepseeing insight (had not wishing oftbeen but good time wasted), petrified within his patriarchal shamanah, broadsteyne ’bove citie (Twillby!

Twillby!

), he, conscious of enemies, a kingbilly whitehorsed in a Finglas mill, prayed as he sat on anxious seat (kunt ye neat gift mey toe bout a peer saft eyballds!)

during that three and a hellof hours’ agony of silence, ex profundis malorum, with unfeigned charity that his ouxtrador wordwounder, an engels to the teeth who, nomened Nash of Girahash, would go anyoldwhere in the weeping world on his mottled belly (the rab, the kreeponskneed!)

for milk, music or married missusses, might, mercy to providential benevolence’s (who hates prudencies) astuteness, unfold into the first of a distinguished dynasty of his posteriors, blackfaced connemaras not of the fold but elder children of his household, his most besetting of ideas (pace his twolve predamanant passions) being the formation, as in more favoured climes, where the Meadow of Honey is guestfriendly and the Mountain of Joy receives, of a truly criminal stratum, Ham’s cribcracking yeggs, thereby at last eliminating from the oppidump much desultory delinquency from all classes and masses with directly derivative decasualisation: sigarius (sic!)

vindicat urbes terrorum (sicker!

): and so, to mark a lank taal she arter, the hobedience of the citizens elp the ealth of the ole.

Now gode.

Let us leave theories there and return to here’s here.

Now hear.

’Tis gode again.

The teak coffin, Pughglasspanelfitted, feets to the east, was to turn in handy later, and pitly patly near the porpus, materially effecting the cause.

And this, liever, is the thinghowe.

Any number of conservative public bodies, through a number of select and other committees having power to add to their number, before voting themselves and himself, town, port and garrison, by a fit and proper resolution, following a koorts order of the groundwet, once for all out of plotty existence, as a forescut, so you maateskippey might to you cuttinrunner on a neuw pack of klerds, made him, while his body still persisted, their present of a protem grave in Moyelta of the best Lough Neagh pattern, then as much in demand among misonesans as the Isle of Man today among limniphobes.

Wacht even!

It was in a fairly fishy kettlekerry after the Fianna’s foreman had taken his handful, enriched with ancient woods and dear dutchy deeplinns mid which were an old knoll and a troutbeck, vainyvain of her osiery and a chatty sally with any Wilt or Walt who would ongle her as Izaak did to the tickle of his rod and watch her waters of, her sillying waters of, and there now, brown peater everipple (may their quilt gild lightly over his somnolutent form!

), Whoforyou lies his last, by the wrath of Bog, like the erst curst Hun in the bed of his treubleu Donawhu.

Best.

This wastohavebeen underground heaven, or mole’s paradise, which was probably also an inversion of a phallopharos intended to foster wheat crops and to ginger up the tourist trade (its architect, Mgr Peurelachasse, having been obcaecated lest he should petrifake suchanevver while the contractors, Messrs T. A. Birketts and L. O. Tuohalls, were made invulnerably venerable), first in the west, our misterbilder, Castlevillainous, openly damned and blasted by means of a hydromine, system Sowan and Beltiny, exploded from a reinvented T.N.T.

bombingpost up ahoy of eleven hundred and thirtytwo wingrests (circiter) to sternboord out of his aerial thorpeto, Auton Dynamon, contacted with the expectant minefield by tins of improved ammonia lashed to her shieldplated gunwale and fused into tripup cables, slipping through tholes and playing down from the conning tower into the ground battery fuseboxes, all differing as clocks from keys since nobody appeared to have the same time of beard, some saying by their Oorlog it was Sygstrygg’s to nine, more holding with the Ryan vogt it was Dane to pfife.

He afterwards, whaanever his blaetther began to fail off him and his rough bark was wholly husky and, stoop by stoop, he neared it (would-manspare!

), carefully lined the ferroconcrete result with rotproof bricks and mortar, fassed to fossed, and retired beneath the heptarchy of his towerettes, the beauchamp, byward, bell and lion, the white, the wardrobe and bloodied, so encouraging (insteppen, alls als hats beliefd!)

additional useful councils public with hoofd offdealings which were welholden of ladykants te huur out such as the Breeders’ Union, the Guild of Merchants of the Staple et a.u.c.

to present unto him with funebral pomp over and above that a stone slab with the usual MacPelah address of valediction, a very fairworded instance of falsemeaning adamelegy: We have done ours gohellt with you, Heer Herewhippit, overgiven it, skidoo!

But t’house and allaboardshoops!

Show coffins, winding sheets, cinerary urns, liealoud brasses, snuffchests, poteentubbs, goodbuy bierchepes, lacrimal vases, hoodendoses, reekwaterbeckers, breakmiddles, zootzaks for eatlust, including upyourhealthing rookworst and meathewersoftened forkenpootsies and for that matter, javel also, any kind of inhumationary bric au brac for the adornament of his glasstone honophreum would, met these trein of konditiens, naturally follow, halas, in the ordinary course, enabling that roundtheworlder wandelingswight, did suches pass him, to live all safeathomely the presenile days of his life of opulence, ancient ere decrepitude, late lents last lenience till stuffering stage, whaling away the whole of the while, lethelulled (hypnos chilia eonon!)

between explosion and reexplosion (Donnaurwatteur!

Hunderthunder!)

from grosskopp to megapod, embalmed, of grand age, rich in death anticipated.

But abide Zeit’s sumonserving, rise after fall: blueblitzbolted from Sideria, buried burrowing in Gehinnon, there, knowing the hingeworms of the hallmirks of habitationlessness, to proliferate through all his Unterwealth, seam by seam, sheol om sheol, and revisit our Uppercrust of Utilitarios, the divine one, the hoarder hidden, propagating his plutorpopular progeniem of pots and pans and pokers and puns from biddenland to boughtenland, the spearway fore the spoorway.

The other spring offensive on the heights of Abraham may have come about all quite by accidence.

Foughtarundser (for Breedabrooda had at length persuaded him to have himself to be as septuply buried as the murdered Cian in Finntown) had not been three monads in his watery grave (what vigilantes and ridings then and spuitwyne pledges with aardappel frittling!)

when portrifaction, dreyfussed as ever, began to ramp, ramp, ramp, the boys are parching.

A hoodenwinkle gave the signal and a blessing paper freed the flood.

Why did the patrizien make him scares with his gruntens?

Because the druiven were muskating at the door.

From both Celtiberian camps (granting at the onset for the sake of argument that men on the two sides, in New South Ireland and Vetera Uladh, bluemin and pillfaces, during the ferment With the Pope or On the Pope, had, moors or letts, grant ideas, grunted) all conditions, poor cons and dives mor, each, of course, on the purely doffensive since the eternals were owlwise on their side every time, were drawn toowards their Bellona’s Black Bottom, once Woolwhite’s Waltz (Ohiboh, how becrimed, becursekissed and bedumbtoit!

), some for want of proper feeding in youth, others already caught in the honourable act of slicing out careers for family and carvers in conjunction: and, if emaciated enough, the person garrotted may have suggested to whomever took the ham of, the plain being involved in darkness, low cirque waggery, nay, even the first old wugger of himself in the flesh, whiggissimus incarnadined, when falsesighted by the ifsuchhewas bully on the hill, a tory of the tories, for there had circulated freely fairly among his opposition the feeling that in so hibernating Massa Eewacka, who, previous to that demidetached life, had been known of barmicidal days, cook said, between soup and savoury, to get outside his own length of rainbow trout and taerts atta tarn as no man of woman born, nay, could, like the great crested grebe, devour his three score ten of roach per lifeday, ay, and as many minnow a minute (the big mix, may Gibbet choke him!

), was, like the salmon of his ladderleap, all this time of totality, noctu semenipsum manducare, secretly and by suckage feeding on his own misplaced fat.

Ladies did not disdain those pagan ironed times of the first city (called after the ugliest Danadune) when a frond was a friend inneed to carry, as earwigs do their dead, their soil to the earthball where indeeth we shall calm decline, our legacy unknown.

Venuses were gigglibly temptatrix, vulcans guffawably eruptious and the whole wives’ world frockful of fickles.

Fact, any human inyan you liked any erenoon or efter would take her bare goddkin out, or an even pair of hem (lugod!

lugodoo!

), and prettily pray with him (or with em even), everyhe to her taste, long for luck, tapette and tape petter and take pettest of all.

Tip!

Wells she’d woo and wills she’d win but how the deer knowed where she’d marry her!

Arbour, bucketroom, caravan, ditch?

Coach, carriage, wheelbarrow, dungcart?

Kate Strong (tip!

), a widow (tiptip!

)—she pulls a lane picture for us in a dreariodreama setting, glowing and very vidual, of old dumplan as she nosed it, a homelike cottage of elvanstone with droppings of biddies, stinkend pusshies, moggies’ duggies, rotten witchawubbles, festering rubbages and beggars’ bullets, if not worse, sending salmofarious germs in gleefully through the smithereen panes—Widow Strong, then, as her weaker had turned him to the wall (tiptiptip!

), did most all the scavenging from good King Hamlaugh’s gulden dayne onwards, though her lean besom cleaned but sparingly, and her bare statement reads that, there being no macadamised sidetracks on those old nekropolitan nights barring a footbatter, Bryant’s Causeway, bordered with speedwell, white clover and sorrel a wood knows, which left off, being beaten, where the plaintiff was struck, she left down, as scavengers who will be scavengers must, her filthdump near the Serpentine in Phornix Park (at her time called Finewell’s Keepsacre but later tautaubapptossed Pat’s Purge), that dangerfield circling butcherswood where fireworker oh flaherty engaged a nutter of castlemallards and ah for archer stunned ’s turk, all over which fossil footprints, bootmarks, fingersigns, elbowdints, kneecaves, breechbowls a.s.o.

were all successively traced of a mostenvolving description.

What subtler timeplace of the weald than such wolfsbelly castrament will hide a leabhar from Thursmen’s brandihands or a loveletter, lostfully hers, that would be lust on Ma, than there where ructions ended, than here where race began: and by four hands of forethought the first babe of reconcilement is laid in its last cradle of hume sweet hume.

Give over it!

And no more of it!

So pass the pick for child sake!

O men!

For hear Allhighest sprack for krischnians as for propagana fidies: and his nuptial eagles sharped their beaks of prey: and every murphyl man of us, pome by pome, falls back into this terrine: as it was let it be, says he!

And it is as though where Agni araflammed and Mithra monished and Shiva slew as mayamutras the streamlettes of the obluvial waters of our noarchic memory withdrew, windingly goharksome, to some hastyswasty timberman torchpriest, flamenfan, the ward of the wind that lightened the fire that lay in the wood that Jove bolt, at her rude word: Posidonius O’Fluctuary!

Lave that bloody stone as it is!

What are you doing your dirty minx and his big treeblock way up your path?

Slip around, you, by the rare of the minister’s!

And, you, take that barrel back where you got it, MacShane’s, and go the way your old one went, Hatchettsbury Road!

And, gish, how they gushed away, the pennyfares, a whole school for scamper, with their sashes flying sish behind them, all the little pirlypettes!

Issy-la-Chapelle!

Any lucans, please?

Yes, the viability of vicinals if invisible is invincible.

And we are not trespassing on his corns either.

Look at all the plotsch!

Flaminian!

If this was Hannibal’s walk it was Hercules’ work.

And a hungried thousand of the unemancipated slaved the way.

The mausoleum lies behind us (O Adgigasta, multipopulipater!)

and there are milestones in their cheadmilias faultering along the tramestrack, by Brahm and Anton Hermes!

Per omnibus secular seekalarum.

Amain.

But the past has made us this present of a rhedarhoad.

So more boher to O’Connell!

Though rainyhidden, you’re rhinohide.

And if he’s not a Romeo you may scallop your hat.

Wereupunder in the fane of Saint Fiacre!

Halte!

It was hard by the howe goes there, plainly on this disoluded and a buchan cold spot, rupestric then, resurfaced that now is, that Luttrell sold if Lautrill bought, in the saddle of Brennan’s (now Malpasplace?)

pass, versts and versts from true civilisation, not where his dreams top their traums halt (Beneathere!

Beneathere!)

but where livland yontide meared with the wilde, saltlea with flood, that the attackler, though under medium and between colours, with truly cropatkin pluck engaged the Adversary who had more in his eye than was less to his leg but whom, for plunder sake, he mistook in the heavy rain to be Oglethorpe or some other ginkus, Parr aparrently, to whom the headandheelless chickenestegg bore some michelangiolesque resemblance, making use of sacrilegious languages to the defect that he would challenge their hemosphores to exterminate them but he would cannonise the b—y b—r’s life out of him and lay him out contritely as smart as the b—r had his b—y nightprayers said, three patrecknocksters and a couplet of hellmuirries (tout est sacré pour un sacreur, femme à barbe ou homme-nourrice), at the same time, so as to pluggwell let the blubbywail ghoats out of him, catching holst of an oblong bar he had and with which he usually broke furnitures he rose the stick at him.

The boarder incident prerepeated itself.

The pair (whethertheywere Nippoluono engaging Wei-Ling-Taon or de Razzkias trying to reconnoistre the general Boukeleff, man may not say) struggled apairently for some considerable time (the cradle rocking equally to one and oppositely from the other on its law of capture and recapture) under the All-In rules around the booksafe, fighting like purple top and tipperuhry Swede, as stuck as that cat to that mouse in that tube of that christchurch organ (did the imirage of Girl Cloud Pensive float above them, light young charm, in ribbons and pigtail?

), and in the course of their tussle the taller man, who had opened his bully bowl to beg, said to the miner who was carrying the worm (a handy term for the portable distillery which consisted of three vats, two jars and several bottles, though we purposely say nothing of the stiff, both parties having an interest in the spirits): — Let me go, Pautheen!

I hardly knew ye.

Later on, after the solstitial pause for refleshmeant, the same man (or a different and younger ham of the same him) asked in the vermicular with a very oggly chew-chin-grin as if he forgot something: — Was six victolios fifteen pigeon takee offa you, tell he me, stlongfella, by pickypocky ten to foul months behindaside?

There were some further collidabanter and severe tries to convert for the best part of an hour and now a woden affair in the shape of a webley (we at once recognise our old friend Ned of so many illortemporate letters) fell from the intruser who (Secremented Serviour of the Divine Zeal!)

where-upon became friendly and, saying not his shirt to tear, to know wanted, joking and knobkerries all aside laying, if his change companion, who stuck still to the invention of his strongbox with a tenacity corrobberating their mutual tenitorial rights, happened to have the loots change of a tenpound crickler about him at the moment, addling that, hap so, he would pay him back the six vics odd, do you see, out of that for what was taken on the man of samples last Yuni or Yuly, do you follow me, Capn?

To this the other, Billi with the Boule, who had mummed and mauled up to that (for he was hesitency carried to excelcism) rather amusedly replied: — Woowoo would you be grossly surprised, Hill, to learn that, as it so happens, I honestly have not such a thing as the loo, as the least chance of a tinpanned crackler anywhere about me at the present mohomoment but I believe I can see my way, as you suggest, it being Yuletide or Yuddanfest and as it’s mad nuts, son, for you when it’s hatter’s hares, mon, for me, to advance you something like four and sevenpence between hopping and tropping which you might just as well have, boy baches, to buy J. J. and S. with.

There was a minute silence before memory’s fire’s rekindling and then.

Heart alive!

Whwh at very first wind of gaygay and whiskwy, ’s wick ears pricked up, the starving gunman, strike him pink for a chip off the old flint, became strangely calm and forthright sware by all his lards porsenal that the thorntree of Sheol might ramify up his Sheofon to the lux apointlex but he would go good to him suntime, marx my word fort (in the Nichtian glossery which purveys aprioric roots for aposteriorious tongues this is nat language at any sinse of the world and one might as fairly go and kish his sprogues as fail to certify whether the wartrophy eluded at some lives earlier was that somethink like a jug, to what, a coctable French hen or the portlifowlium of hastes and leisures, about to continue), remarxing in languidoily, seemingly much more highly pleased than tongue could tell at this opening of a lifetime and the foretaste of the Dun Bank pearlmothers and the boy to wash down which he would feed to himself in the Ruadh Cow at Tallaght and then into the Good Woman at Ringsend and after her inat Conway’s Inn at Blackrock and, first to fall, cursed be all, where appetite would keenest be, funeral fare or fun fain real, atte Adam and Eve’s in Quantity Street by the grace of game Queen Tailte, her will and testament: — You stunning little southdowner!

I’d know you anywhere, Declaney, let me trucefully tell you, in or out of the lexincton of life, and who the hell else, be your blanche patch on the boney part!

Goalball I’ve struck this daylit dielate night of nights, by golly!

My hat, you have some bally German grit, sundowner!

He spud in his faust (axin): he toped the raw best (pardun): he poked his pick (a tip is a tap): and he tucked his friend’s leave.

And with that the queer mixture exchanged the pax in an embrace or poghue puxy as practised between brothers of the same breast, hillelulia, killelulia, allenalaw, and, having ratified before the god of the day their torgantruce which belittlers have schmallkalled the treatyng to cognac, turning his fez menialstrait in the direction of Mosca, he first got rid of a few bitsmillers and hurooshoos and levanted off with tubular jurbulance at a bull’s run over the assback bridge, spitting his teeths on roots, with the seven and four in danegeld and their humoral hurlbat or other uncertain weapon of lignum vitae (but so evermore rhumanasant of a toboggan poop) picked up, to keep some crowplucking appointment with some rival rialtor anywheres between Pearidge and the Littlehorn while this poor delaney who they left along with the confederate fender behind and who, albeit ballsbluffed, bore up wonderfully wunder all of it with a whole number of plumsized contusiums, plus alasalah bruised coccyx, all over him, reported the occurrence in the best way he could, to the flabbergaze of the whole lab, giving the Paddybanners the military salute as for his exilicy’s the O’Daffy, in justifiable hope that, in nobiloroman review of the hugely sitisfactuary conclusium of their negotiations and the jugglemonkysh agripment deinderivative, some lotion or fomentation of poppyheads would be jennerously exhibited to the parts, at the nearest watchhouse on Vicar Lane, the white ground of his face all covered with diagonally redcrossed nonfatal mammalian blood as proof positive of the seriousness of his character and that he was bleeding in self defience (stanch it!)

from the nostrils, lips, pavilion and palate, while some of his hitter’s hairs had been pulled off his knut’s head by Colt though otherwise his allround health appeared to be middling along as it proved most fortunate that not one of the two hundred and six bones and five hundred and one muscles in his corso was a whit the whorse for her whacking.

Herwho?

Nowthen, leaving clashing ash, brawn and muscle and brassmade to oust earthenborn and rockcrystal to wreck isinglass but wurming along gradually for our savings backtowards motherwaters so many miles from bank and Dublin stone (olympiading even till the eleventh dynasty to reach that thuddysickend Hamlaugh) and to the question of boney’s unlawfully obtaining a pierced paraflamme and claptrap fireguard, there crops out the still more salient point of the politish leanings and town pursuits of our forebeer, El Don De Dunelli (may his ship thicked stick in the bottol of the river and all his crewsers stock locked in the burral of the seas!

), who, when within the black of your toenail, sir, of being mistakenly ambushed by one of the uddahveddahs and as close as made no matter, mam, to being kayoed offhand when the hyougono heckler with the Peter the Painter wanted to hole him, was consistently practising the first of the primary and imprescriptible liberties of the pacific subject by circulating (be British, boys, to your bellybone and chuck a chum a chance!)

alongst one of our umphrohibited semitary thrufahrts, open to buggy and bike, to walk, Wellington Park Road, with the curb or quaker’s quacknostrum under his auxter and his alpenstuck in his redhand, a highly commendable exercise, or, number two of our acta legitima plebeia, on the brink (beware to baulk a man at his will!)

of taking place upon a public seat, to what, bare by Butt’s, most easterly (but all goes west!)

of blackpool bridges, as a public protest and naturlikevice without intent to annoy either, being praisegood thankfully for the wrathbereaved ringdove and the fearstung boaconstrictor and all the more right jollywell pleased, which he was, at having other people’s weather.

But to return to the Atlantic and Phenitia Proper.

As if that were not to be enough for anyone but little headway, if any, was made in solving the wasnottobe crime conundrum when a child of Maam, Festy King, of a family long and honourably associated with the tar and feather industries, who gave an address in old plomausch Mayo of the Saxons in the heart of a foulfamed potheen district, was subsequently haled up at the Old Bailey on the calends of Mars under an incompatibly framed indictment of both the counts (from each equinoxious points of view, the one fellow’s fetch being the other follow’s person), that is to see, flying cushats out of his ouveralls and making fesses immodst his forces on the field.

Oyeh!

Oyeh!

When the prisoner, soaked in methylated, appeared in dry dock, appatently ambrosiaurealised like Kersse’s Korduroy Karikature, wearing (besides stains, rents and patches) his fight shirt, straw braces, souwester and a policeman’s corkscrew trowswers all out of the true (as he had purposely torn up all his cymtrymanx bespokes in the mamertime), deposing for his exution with all the fluors of sparse in the royal Irish vocabularly how the whole padderjagmartin tripiezite suet and all the sulfeit of copperas had fallen off him quatz unaccountably like the chrystalisations of Alum on Even while he was trying for to stick fire to himcell (in feacht he was dripping as he found upon stripping for a pipkin of malt as he feared the coold raine), it was attempted by the crown (P.C.

Robort) to show that King, elois Crowbar, once known as Meleky, impersonating a climbing boy, rubbed some pixes of any luvial peatsmoor o’er his face, plucks and pussas, with a clanetourf as the best means of disguising himself and was at the middlewhite fair in Mudford of a Thoorsday, feishts of Peeler and Pole, under the illassumed names of Tykingfest and Rabworc picked by him and Anthony out of a tellafun book, ellegedly with a pedigrue pig (unlicensed) and a hyacinth.

They were on that sea by the plain of Ir nine hundred and ninetynine years and they never cried crack or ceased from regular paddlewicking till that they landed their two and a trifling selves, amadst camel and ass, greybeard and suckling, priest and pauper, marmatron and merrymeg, into the meddle of the mudstorm.

The gathering, convened by the Irish Angricultural and Prepostoral Ouraganisations to help the Irish muck to look his brother dane in the face, and attended, thanks to Larry, by large numbers of christies and jews’ totems, tospite of the deluge, was distinctly of a scattery kind when the bally-bricken he could get no good of, after cockofthewalking through a few fancyfought mains, ate some of the doorweg, the pikey later selling the gentleman ratepayer because she, Francie’s sister, that is to say, ate a whole side of her (the animal’s) sty, Qui Sta Troia, in order to pay off, hiss or lick, six doubloons fifteen arrears of his, the villain’s not the rumbler’s, rent.

Remarkable evidence was given, anon, by an eye, ear, nose and throat witness, whom Wesleyan chapelgoers suspected of being a plainclothes priest, W— P—, situate at Nullnull, Medical Square, who, upon letting down his rice and peacegreen coverdisk and having been sullenly cautioned against yawning while being grilled, smiled (he had had a onebumper at parting from Mrs Molroe in the morning) and stated to his eliciter under his morse mustaccents (gobbless!)

that he slept with a bonafides and that he would be doorbringing there that night and how he was pleased to remember the filth of November, hatinaring, rowdy O, which, with the jiboulees of Juno and the dates of ould lanxiety, was going, please the Rainmaker, to decembs within the ephemerides of profane history, all one with Tournay, Yetstoslay and Temorah, and that one thing which would pigstickularly strike a person of such sorely tried observational powers as Sam, him and Moffatt, though theirs not to reason why, the striking thing about it was that he was patrified to see, hear, taste and smell on Struggle Street as his time of night how Hyacinth O’Donnell, B.A., described in the calendar as a mixer and wordpainter, with part of a sivispacem (Gaeltact for dungfork) on the fair green at the hour of twentyfour o’clock sought (the bullycassidy of the friedhoffer!)

to sack, sock, stab and slaughter singlehanded another two of the old kings, Gash MacGale and Roaring O’Crian, Jr, both changelings, unlucalised, of no address and in non-communicables, between him and whom ever since wallops before the Mise of Lewes bad blood existed on the ground of the boer’s trespass on the bull or because he firstparted his polarbeeber hair in twoways or because they were creepfoxed andt grousuppers over a nippy in a noveletta or because they could not say meace (mute and daft!

), meathe.

The lifigants, he said, local congsmen and donalds, kings of the arans and the dalkeys, kings of mud and tory, even the goat king of Killorglin, were egged on by their supporters in the shape of bitterwomen with bowstrung hair of Carrothagenuine ruddiness waving crimson petties and screaming like stuck kruegers from Isod’s towertop.

There were cries from the thicksets in court and from the macdublins on the bohernabreena of: Mind Messer, the ban from Banagher, Mick, sir!

Prodooce O’Donner.

A Bu!

Exhibit his relics!

Use the tongue mor!

Give lip less!

But it oozed out in Deadman’s Dark Scenery Court through crossexanimation of the casehardened testis that when and where that knife of knifes the threepartied ambush was laid (roughly spouting around half hours ’twixt dusk in dawn, by Waterhose’s, Meddle Europeic Time, near Stop and Think, high chief evervirens and only abfalltree in auld the land) there was not as much light from the widowed moon as would dim a child’s altar.

The mixer, accordingly, was bluntly broached, and in the best basel to boot, as to whether he was one of those lucky cocks for whom the audible-visible-gnosible-edible world existed.

That he was only too cognitively conatively cogitabundantly sure of it because, living, loving, breathing and sleeping morphomelosophopancreates, as he most significantly did, whenevery he thought he heard he saw he felt he made a bell clipperclipperclipperclipper.

Whether he was practically sure too of his lugs and truies in this king and blousyman business?

That he was pediculously so.

Certified?

As cad could be.

Be lying?

Be the lonee I will.

It was Morbus O’Somebody?

A’quite.

Szerday’s son?

A satyr in weddens.

And how did the greeneyed mister arrive at the B.A.?

That it was like his poll.

A crossgrained trapper with murty odd oogs, awlforated ares, inquiline nase and a twitcherous mouph?

He would be.

Who could bit you att to a tenyerdfuul when aastalled?

Ballera jobbera.

Some majar bore too?

Iguines.

And with a stopper head, bottle shoulders, a barrel bauck and tumblerous legs, redipnominated Helmingham Erchenwyne Rutter Egbert Crumwall Odin Maximus Esme Saxon Esa Vercingetorix Ethelwulf Rupprecht Ydwallo Bentley Osmund Dysart Yggdrasselmann?

Holy Saint Eiffel, the very phoenix!

It was Chudley Magnall once more between the deffodates and the dumb scene?

The two childspies was preesing him auza de Vologne but the renting of his rock was from the three wicked Vuncouverers.

Forests bent down awhits, arthou sure?

Yubete, Cumhilum comes!

One of the oxmen’s thingabossers, hvad?

Wirrgeling and boeuffickly bucephull.

And had he been refresqued by the founts of bounty playing there—is—a—grain—aleland in Long’s gourgling barral?

A loss of lordedward and a lack of sirphilip a surgeoned showeradown could suck more gargling bubbles out of the five lamps in Portterand’s praise.

Wheataured, however, and with fallen mammaries?

As whouse wouldn’t, laving his leaftime in Blackpool.

Bott, of course, he could call himself Tem too if he had time to?

You butt he could anytom.

When he pleased?

Win and place.

A stoker temptated by evesdripping against the driver who was a witness as well?

Sacred avatar, how the devil did they guess it!

Two dreamyums in one dromium?

Yes and no error.

And both as like as a duel of lentils?

Peacisely.

So he was pelted out of the coram populo, was he?

Be the powers that be, that he was.

The prince in principel should not expose his person?

Macchevuole!

Rooskayman, kamerad?

Sooner Gallwegian he would say.

Not unintoxicated, fair witness?

Drunk as a fishup.

Askt to whether she minded whither he smuked?

Not if he barkst into phlegms.

Anent his ajacciulations to his Crosscann Lorne, cossa?

It was corso in cursu on coarser again.

The gracious miss was we not doubt sensible how yellowatty on the forx was altered?

That she esually was, O’Dowd me nut!
