And we’re the closest of chems.

Mark my use of you, cog!

Take notice how I yemploy, crib!

Be ware as you I foil, coppy!

It’s a pity he can’t see it for I’m terribly nice about him.

Canwyll y Cymry, the marmade’s flamme!

A leal of the O’Looniys, a Brazel aboo!

The most omportent man!

Shervos!

Ho, be the holy snakes, someone has shaved his rough diamond skull for him as clean as Nuntius’ piedish!

The burnt out mesh and the matting and all!

Thunderweather, khyber schinker, escapa sansa pagar!

He’s the spatton spit, so he is, scaly skin and all, with his blackguarded eye and the goatsbeard in his buttinghole, of Shemuel Tulliver, me grandsourd, the old cruxader, when he off with his paudeen!

That was to let the crowd of Flu Flux Fans behind him see me proper.

Ah, he’s very thoughtful and sympatrico that way, is Brother Intelligentius, when he’s not absintheminded, with his Paris adresse!

He is, really.

Hold hard till you’ll ear him clicking his bull’s bones!

Some toad klakkin!

You’re welcome back, Wilkins, to red berries in the frost!

And here’s the butter exchange to pfeife and dramn ye with a bawlful of the Moulsaybaysse and yunker doodler wanked to wall awriting off his phoney.

I’m tired hairing of you.

Hat yourself!

Give us your dyed dextremity here, frother, the Claddagh clasp!

I met with dapper dandy and he shocked me big the hamd.

Where’s your watchkeeper?

You’ve seen all sorts in shapes and sizes, marauding about the mappamound.

How’s the cock and the bullfight?

And old Auster and Hungrig?

And the Beer and Belly and the Boot and Ball?

Not forgetting the oils of grease under that turkey in julep and Father Freeshots Feilbogen in his rockery garden with the costards?

And did you meet with Peadhar the Grab at all?

And did you call on Tower Geesyhus?

Was Mona, my own love, no bigger than she should be, making up to you in her bestbehaved manor when you made your breastlaw and made her, tell me?

And did you like the landskip from Lambay?

I’m better pleased than ten guidneys!

You rejoice me!

Faith, I’m proud of you, french davit!

You’ve surpassed yourself!

Be introduced to yes!

This is me aunt Julia Bride, your honour, dying to have you languish to scandal in her bosky old delltangle.

You don’t reckoneyes him?

He’s Jackot the Horner who boxed in his corner, jilting no fewer than three female bribes.

That’s his penals.

Shervorum!

You haven’t seen her since she stepped into her drawoffs.

Don’t be shoy, husbandman!

Weih, what’s on you, wifewoman?

Up the shamewauch!

She has plenty of woom in the smallclothes for the bothsforus, nephews push!

Hatch yourself well!

Come on, spinister, do your stuff!

Would you wait biss she buds till you bite on her?

Embrace her bashfully by all means at my frank incensive and tell her in your semiological agglutinative yez like boyrun to sibster how Idos be asking after her.

Let us be holy and evil and let her be peace on the bough.

Sure, she fell in line with our tripertight photos as the lyonised mails when we were stablelads together like the corksagain brothers, hungry and angry, cavileer grace by roundhered force, me and you, shinners true, and pinchme, our tertius quiddus, that never talked or listened.

Always raving how we had the wrinkles of a snailcharmer and the slits and sniffers of a fellow that fell foul of the county de Loona and the meattrap of the first vegetarian.

To be had for the asking.

Have a hug!

Take her out of poor tuppenny luck before she goes off in pure treple licquidance.

I’d give three shillings a pullet to the canon for the conjugation to shadow you kissing her from me liberally all over as if she was a crucifix.

Enjombyourselves thurily.

It’s good for her bilabials, you understand.

There’s nothing like the mistletouch for finding a queen’s earring false.

Chink chink.

As the curly bard said after kitchin the womn in his hym to the hum of her garments.

You try a little tich to the tissle of his tail.

The racist to the racy, rossy.

The soil is for the self alone.

Be ownkind.

Be kithkinish.

Be bloodysibby.

Be irish.

Be inish.

Be offalia.

Be hamlet.

Be the property plot.

Be Yorick and Lankystare.

Be cool.

Be mackinamucks of yourselves.

Be finish.

No martyr where the preature is there’s no plagues like rome.

It gives up the gripes.

Watch the swansway.

Take your tiger over it.

The leady on the lake and the convict of the forest.

Why, they might be Babau and Momie!

Yipyip!

To pan!

To pan!

To tinpinnypan.

All folly me yap to Curlew!

Give us a pin for her and we’ll call it a tossup.

Can you reverse positions?

Let’s have a fuchu all round, courting cousins!

Quuck, the duck of a woman, for quack, the drake of a man, her little live apples for Leas and love potients for Leos, the next beast king.

Put me down for all ringside seats.

I can feel you being corrupted.

Recoil.

I can see you sprouting scruples.

Get back.

And as he’s boiling with water I’ll light your pyre.

Turn about, skeezy Sammy, out of metaphor, till we feel are you still tropeful of popetry.

Told you so.

If you doubt of his love of dare airing his feelings you’ll very much hurt, for Mischmasch mastufractured on europe you can read off the tail of his.

Rip ripper rippest and jac jac jac.

Dwell on that, my hero and lander!

That’s the side that appeals to em, the wring wrong way to wright woman.

Shuck her!

Let him!

What he’s good for.

Shuck her more!

Let him again!

All she wants!

Could you wheedle a staveling encore out of your imitationer’s jubalharp, hey, Mr Jinglejoys?

Congregational singing.

Rota rota ran the pagoda con dio in capo ed il diavolo in coda.

Many a diva devoutchka saw her Dauber Dan at the priesty pagoda Rota ran.

Uck!

He’s so sedulous to singe always if prumpted, the mirthprovoker!

Grunt unto us, I pray, your foreboden article in our own dear dockandoilish introducing the death of Nelson with coloraturas!

Coraio, fra!

And I’ll string seconds to hermanise.

My loaf and pottage neaheaheahear Rochelle.

With your dumpsey diddeley dumpsey die, fiddeley fa.

Diavoloh!

Or come on, schoolcolours, and we’ll scrap, rug and mat, and then be as chummy as two bashed spuds.

Bitrial bay holmgang or betrayal buy jury.

Attaboy!

Fee gate has Heenan hoity, mind uncle Hare?

What, sir?

Poss, myster?

Achieve!

Thou thou?

What say ye?

Taurus periculosus, morbus pediculosus.

Miserere mei in miseribilibus!

There’s uval lunguage for you!

The tower is precluded, the mob’s in her petticoats, Mr R. E. Meehan is in misery with his billyboots.

Begob, there’s not so much green in his Ireland’s eye!

Sweet fellow ovocal, he stones out of stune.

But he could be near a colonel with a voice like that.

The bark is still there but the molars are gone.

The misery billyboots I used to lend him before we split!

Be the hole in the year, they were laking like heaven’s reflexes.

But I told him make your will be done and go to a general and I’d pray confessions for him.

Areesh!

Areesh!

And I’ll be your intrepider.

Ambras!

Ruffle her!

Bussing was before the blood and bissing will behind the curtain.

Triss!

Did you note that worrid expressionism on his megalogue?

A full octavium below me!

And did you hear his three browrings rattlemaking when he was preaching to himself?

And (whoa!)

do you twig the schamlooking leaf greeping ghastly down his blousyfrock?

Our national umbloom!

Areesh!

He won’t.

He’s shoy.

Those worthies, my old faher’s onkel that was garotted, Caius Cocoa Codinhand, that I lost in a crowd, used to chop that tongue of his, japlatin, with my younkle’s owlseller, Woowoolfe Woodenbeard, that went stonebathered, in the Tower of Balbus, as brisk, man, as I’d scoff up muttan chepps and lobscouse.

But it’s all deafman’s duff to me, begob.

Sam knows miles bettern me how to work the miracle.

And I see by his diarrhio he’s dropping the stammer out of his silenced bladder since I bonded him off more as a friend and as a brother to try and grow a muff and canonise his dead feet down on the river airy by thinking himself into the fourth dimension and place the ocean between his and ours, the churchyard in the cloister of the depths, after he was capped out of beurlads scoel for the sin against the past participle and earned the jactitation for codding chaplain and of being as homely gauche as swift, B.A.A.

Who gets twickly fullgets twice as allemanden huskers.

But the whacker his word the weaker our ears for auracles who parles parses orileys oreill.

Illstarred punster, lipstering cowknucks.

’Twas the quadra sent him and trinity too.

And he can cantab as chipper as any oxon ever I mood with.

A tiptoe singer!

He’ll prisckly soon handtune your Erin’s ear for you, p.p.

a mimograph at a time, numan bitter, with his ancomartinns to read the road roman with false steps ad Pernicious from rhearsilvar ormolus to torquinions superbers while I’m far away from wherever thou art, serving my tallyhos and tullying my hostilious, by going in by the most holy recitatandas ffffor my varsatile examinations in the ologies, to be a coach on the Fukien mission.

!

P?

F?

!

How used you learn me, brather soboostius, in my augustan days?

With cesarella looking on.

Ahehihohyoum!

In the beginning was the geste, he jousstly says, for the end is with woman, flesh-without-word, while the man to be is in a worse case after than before since she on the supine satisfies the verb to him.

Toughtough, tootoological.

Thou, the first person shingeller.

Art, an imperfect subjunctive.

Paltry, flappent, haud serious.

Miss Smith, onamatter-poetic.

Hamnisandwis axes colles waxes warmas like sodullas.

So pick your stops with fondness now.

And mind you twine the twos noods of your nice-names.

And pull up your furbelovs as farabove as you’re farthingales.

That’ll hint him how to click the trigger.

Show you shall and wont he will!

His hearing is indoubting just as my seeing is onbelieving.

So dactylise him up to blankpoint and let him blink for himself where you speak the best ticklish.

You’ll feel what I mean.

Fond namer, let me never see thee blame a kiss for shame a knee!

Echo, read ending!

Siparioramoci!

But from the stress of their sunder enlivening, at clasp, deciduously, a nikrokosmikon must come to mike.

— Well, my positively last at any stage!

