And save that, Oliviero, for thy sunny day!

Soupmeagre!

Couldn’t look at it!

But if you’ll buy me yon coat of the vairy furry best I’ll try and pullll it awn mee.

It’s in fairly good order and no doubt ’twill sarve to turn.

Remove this boardcloth!

Next stage, tell the tabler, for a variety of Huguenot ligooms I’ll try my set on edges grapeling an aigrydoucks, grilled over birchenrods, with a few bloomancowls in albies.

I want to get outside monasticism.

Mass and meat mar no man’s journey.

Eat a missal lest.

Nuts for the nerves, a flitch for the flue and for to rejoice the chambers of the heart the spirits of the spice isles, curry and cinnamon, chutney and cloves.

All the vitalmines is beginning to sozzle in chewn and the hormonies to clingleclangle, fudgem, kates and epas and naboc and erics and oinnos on kingclud and xoxxoxo and xooxox xxoxoxxoxxx till I’m fustfed like fung-stif and very presently from now posthaste it’s off yourll see me ryuoll on my usual rounds again to draw Terminus Lower and Killadown and Letternoosh, Letterspeak, Lettermuck to Littorananima and the roomiest house even in Ireland, if you can understamp that, and my next item’s platform it’s how I’ll try and collect my extraprofessional postages owing to me by Thaddeus Kellyesque Squire, dr, for nondesirable printed matter.

The Jooks and the Kelly-Cooks have been milking turnkeys and sucking the blood out of the Marshalsea since the act of First Offenders.

But I know what I’ll do.

Great pains off him I’ll take and that’ll be your redletterday calendar, window machree!

I’ll knock it out of him!

I’ll stump it out of him!

I’ll rattattatter it out of him before I’ll quit the doorstep of old Con Connolly’s residence!

By the horn of twenty of both of the two Saint Collopys, blackmail him I will in arrears or my name’s not penitent Ferdinand!

And it’s daily and hourly I’ll nurse him till he pays me fine fee.

Ameal.

Well, here’s looking at ye!

If I never leave you biddies till my stave is a bar I’d be tempted rigidly to become a passionate father.

Me hunger’s weighed.

Hungkung!

Me anger’s suaged!

Hangkang!

Ye can stop as ye are, little lay mothers, and wait in wish and wish in vain till the grame reaper draws nigh, with the sickle of the sickles, as a blessing in disguise.

Devil a curly hair I care!

If any lightfoot Clod Dewvale was to try to hold me up, dicksturping me and marauding me of my rights to my onus, yan, tyan, tethera, methera, pimp, I’d let him have my best pair of galloper’s heels in his creamsourer.

He will have better manners, I’m dished if he won’t!

Console yourself, drawhure deelish!

There’s a refond of eggsized coming to you out of me so mind you do me duty on me!

Bruise your bulge below the belt till I blewblack beside you.

And you’ll miss me more as the narrowing weeks wing by.

Someday duly, Oneday truly, Twosday newly, till Whensday.

Look for me always at my west and I will think to dine.

A tear or two in time is all there’s toot.

And then in a click of the clock, toot toot, and doff doff we pop with sinnerettes in silkettes lining longroutes for His Diligence Majesty, our longdistance laird that likes creation.

To whoosh!

— Meesh, meesh!

Yes, pet.

We were too happy.

I knew something would happen.

I understand, but listen, drawher nearest, Tizzy intercepted, flushing but flashing from her dove and dart eyes as she tactilifully grabbed her male corrispondee to fluster sweet nunsongs in his quickturned ear.

I know, benjamin brother, but listen, I want, girls palmassing, to whisper my whish.

(She, like them like us, me and you, had thoud he n’er it would haltin so lithe when leased is tacitempust tongue.)

Of course, engine dear, I’m ashamed for my life (I must clear my throttle) over this lost moment’s gift of memento nosepaper which I’m sorry, my precious, is allathome I with grief can call my own but all the same, listen, Jaunick, accept this witwee’s mite, though a jennyteeny witweeny piece torn in one place, from my hands in second place of a linenhall valentino with my fondest and much left to tutor.

X.X.X.X.

It was heavily balledicted for young Fr Ml, my pettest parriage priest, and you know who between us by your friend the pope, forty ways in forty nights, that’s the beauty of it, look, scene it, ratty.

Too perfectly priceless for words.

And, listen, now do enhance me, oblige my fiancy and bear it with you morn till life’s e’en and, of course, when never you make usage of it, listen, please kindly think galways, again or again, never forget, of one absendee, not sester Maggy.

Ahim.

That’s the stupidest little cough.

Only be sure you don’t catch your cold and pass it on to us.

And, since levret bounds and larks is soaring, don’t be all the night.

And this, Joke, a sprig of blue speedwell, just a spell of floralora so you’ll mind your veronique.

Of course, Jer, I know you know who sends it, presents that please, mercy, on the face of the waters like that film obote in the magginbottle.

Awfully charming, of course, but it doesn’t do her justice, apart from her cattiness.

Of course, please too write, won’t you, and leave your little bag of doubts, inquisitive, behind you, unto your utterly thine and, thank you, forward it back by return pigeon’s pneu to the loving in case I couldn’t think who it was or any funforall happens I’ll be so curiose to see in the Homesworth breakfast tablotts so as I’ll know etherways by pity bleu if it’s good for my system, what exquisite buttons, gorgiose, in case I don’t hope soon to hear from you.

And thanks ever so many for the ten and the one with nothing at all on.

I will tie a knot on my stringamejip to letter you with my silky paper, as I am given now to understand it will be worth my price in money one day, so don’t trouble to ans unless smthg special as I am getting his pay and wants for nothing so I can live simply and solely for my wonderful kinkless and its loops of loveliness.

When I throw away my rollets there’s rings for all.

Flea, a girl, says it is her colour.

So does B and L and as for V!

And listen to it, Cheveluir!

So distant you’re always.

Bow your boche!

Absolutely perfect!

I will pack my comb and mirror to praxis my oval owes and artless awes and it will follow you pulpicly as far as come back under all my eyes like my sapphire chaplets of ringarosary I will say for you to the Allmichael and solve quipu while the dovedoves pick my mouthbuds (msch!

msch!)

with nurse Madge, my linkingclass girl, she’s a fright, poor old dutch, in her sleeptalking when I paint the measles on her and mudstuskers to make her a man.

We.

We.

Issy done that, I confesh!

But you’ll love her for her hessians.

What class she shows!

And sickly black stockings, cleryng’s jumbles, salvadged from the Wash. Isn’t it the cat’s tonsils!

Simply killing, how she tidies her hair!

I call her Sosy because she’s sosiety for me and she says sossy while I say sassy and she says will you have some more scorns while I say won’t you take a few more schools and she talks about ithel dear while I simply never talk about athel darling.

But she’s nice for enticing my friends and she loves your style, considering she breaks in me shoes for me when I’ve arch trouble, and she would kiss my white arms for me so gratefully but apart from that she’s terribly nice really, my sisther, round the elbow of Erne Street Lower.

And I’ll be strictly forbidden always and true in my own way and private where I will long long to betrue you along with one who will so betrue you that not once while I be betreu him not once will he be betray himself.

Can’t you understand?

Here swheare!

O bother, I must tell the trouth!

My latest lad’s loveliletter I am sore I done something with.

I like him lots coss he never cusses.

Pity bonhom.

Pip pet.

I shouldn’t say he’s pretty but I’m cocksure he’s shy.

Why I love taking him out when I unletched his cordon gate.

Ope, Jack, and atem!

Obeathe my odours and he dote so.

He fell for my lips, for my lisp, for my lewd speaker.

I felt for his strength, his manhood, his—do you mind?

There can be no candle to hold to it, can there?

And, of course, dear professor, I understand.

You can trust me that though I change thy name though not the letter never while I become engaged with my first horsepower, masterthief of hearts, I will give your lovely face of mine away, my boyish bob, not for tons of donkeys, to my second mate with the twirlers, the Engineer with a passionflower (O, the wicked untruth!

What a tell!

That he has bought me in his wellingtons what you haven’t got!

), in one of those pure clean lupstucks of yours thankfully, Arrah of the passkeys, no matter what.

You may be certain of that, fluff, now I know how to tackle.

Lock my nearest next myself.

So don’t keep me now for a good boy for the love of my fragrant saint, you villain, peppering with fear, my goodless graceless, or I’ll first murder you.

But, hvisker, meet me after by next appointment near you know Ships just there beside the Ship at the future poor fool’s circuts of lovemountjoy square to show my disrespects.

Now, let me just your caroline for you, I must really so late.

Sweetpig, he’ll be furious!

How he stalks to simself louther and lover, immutating aperybally.

My prince of the courts who’ll beat me to love!

And I’ll be there when who knows where with the objects of which I’ll knowor forget.

We say.

Trust us.

Our game.

(For fun!)

The Dargle shall run dry the sooner I you deny.

And Mrs A’Mara make it up and be friends with Mrs O’Morum!

Whoevery heard of such a think?

Till the ulmost of all elmoes shall stele our harts asthone!

I will write down all your names in my gold pen and ink.

Everyday, precious, while m’m’ry’s leaves are falling deeply on my Jungfraud’s Messongesbook, I will dream telepath posts dulcets on this isinglass stream (but don’t tell him or I’ll be the mort of him!)

under the libans and the sickamours, the cyprissis and babilonias, where the frondoak rushes to the ashside and the yewleaves too kisskiss themselves, and ’twill carry on my hearz’ waves my still water’s reflections in words over Margrate von Hungaria, her Quaidy ways and her Flavin hair, to thee, Jack ahoy, beyond the boysforus.

Splesh of hiss splash springs your salmon.

Twick twick twinkle twings my twilight as Sarterday aftermoon lex leap will smile on my four-inhanced twelvemonthsmind.

And what’s this I was going to say, dean?

O, I understand!

Listen, here I’ll wait on Thee till the Thingavalla with beautiful Do Be Careful teacakes, more stuesser flavoured than vanilla and blackcurrant there’s a cure in, like a born gentleman till you’ll resemble me, all the time you’re awhile away.

I swear to you, I will, by Candlemas!

And, listen, joey, don’t be ennoyed with me, my old evernew, when, by the end of your chapter, you citch water on the wagon for me being turned a star I’ll dubeurry my two fesces under Pouts Vanisha Creme, their way for spilling creem, and, accent, umto extend my personnalitey to the latents, I’ll boy me for myself only of expensive rainproof of pinked elephant’s breath grey in the loveliest sheerest dearest widowshood over airforce blue I am so wild for, my precious once, Hope Bros, Faith Street, Charity Corner, as the bee loves her skyhigh, for I always had a crush on heliotrope since the dusess of yore cycled round the Finest Park.

And listen.

And never mind me laughing at what’s at.

Ever!

I was in the nerves but it’s my last day.

Always about this hour, I’m sorry, when our gamings for Bruin and Noselong is all oh you tease and afterdoon my lickle pussiness I stheal heimlick in my russians from the attraction park with my terriblitallboots calvescatcher, Pinchapoppapoff, who is going on to be a jennyroll, at my nape, drenched, love, with dripping, to affectionate slapmamma but last at night, look, after my golden violents wetting in my upperstairs splendidly welluminated with such lidlylac curtains wallpapered to match the cat and a fireplease, keep looking, of priceless pearlogs (I just want to see will he or are all Michaels like that) I’ll strip straight after devotions before his fondstare—and I mean it too (thy gape to my gazing I’ll bind and makeleash)—and poke stiff under my isonbound with my soiedisante chineknees cheeckchubby chambermate for the night’s foreign males and your name of Shane will come forth between my shamefaced whesen with other lipth I nakest open my thighth when just woken by his toccatootletoo my first morning.

So now, to thalk thildish, thome, theated with Mag at the oilthan we are doing to thay one little player before doing to deed.

And a tiss to the tassie, for lu and for tu!

Coach me how to tumble, Jaime, and, listen, with supreme regards, Juan, in haste, warn me which to ah ah ah ah … — MEN!

Juan responded fullchantedly to her sororal sonority, imitating himself capitally, with his bubbleblown in his patapet and his chalished drink now well in hand.

(A spilt, see, for a split, see see!)

Ever gloriously kind!

And I truly am eucherised to yous.

Also sacré père and maître d’autel.

Well, ladies upon gentlermen and toastmaster general, let us brindising brandisong, woo and win womenlong, with health to rich vineyards of Erin go dry!

Amingst the living waters of, the living in giving waters of.

Tight!

Loose!

A stiff one for Staffetta mullified with creams of hormony, the coupe that’s chill for jackless jill and a filiform dhouche on Doris!

Esterelles, be not on your weeping what though Shaunathaun is in his fail!

To stir up love’s young fizz I tilt with this bridle’s cup champagne, dimming douce from her peepair of hideseeks, tightsqueezed on my snowybreasted, and while my pearlies in their sparkling wiseheight are nippling her bubblets I swear (and let you swear!)

by the bumper round of my poor old snaggletooth’s solid-bowel I ne’er will prove I’m untrue to your liking (theare!)

so long as my hole looks.

Down.

So gullaby, me poor Isley!

But I’m not for forgetting me innerman monophone for I’m leaving my darling proxy behind for your consolering, lost Dave the Dancekerl, a squamous runaway and a dear old man pal of mine too.

He will arrive incessantly in the fraction of a crust.

Could he quit doubling and stop trippling, he would be the unicorn of his kind.

He’s the mightiest penumbrella I ever flourished on behond the shadow of a post!

Be sure and link him, me O treasauro, as often as you learn, provided there’s nothing between you but a plain deal table.

Only don’t encourage him to cry lessontimes over Leperstown.

But soft!

Can’t be?

Do mailstanes mumble?

Lumtum lumtum!

Now!

The froubadour!

I fremble!

Talk of wolf in a stomach, by all that’s verminous!

Eccolo me!

The return of th’athlate!

Who can secede to his success!

Isn’t Jaunstown, Ousterrike, the small place after all?

I knew I smelt the garlic leek!

Why, bless me swits, here he its, darling Dave, like the catoninelives just in time as if he fell out of space, all draped in mufti, coming home to mourn mountains from his old continence.

And not on one foot either or on two feet aether but on quinquisecular cycles after his French evolution and a blindfold passage by the 4.32 with the pork’s pate in his suicide paw and the gulls laughing lime on his natural skunk, blushing like Pat’s pig, begob!

He’s not too timtom well ashamed to carry out onaglibtograbakelly in his showman’s sinister the testymonicals he gave his twenty annis for, showing the three white feathers, as a home cured emigrant in Paddyouare far below on our sealevel.

Bearer may leave the church, signed, Figura Porca, Lictor Magnaffica.

He’s the sneaking likeness of us, faith, me altar’s ego in miniature and every Auxonian aimer’s ace as nasal a Romeo as I am, for ever cracking quips on himself, that merry, the jeenjakes, he’d soon arise mother’s roses mid bedewing tears under those wild wet lashes onto anny living girl’s laftercheeks.

That’s his little veiniality.

And his impeppeppediment.

He has novel ideas, I know, and he’s a jarry queer fish betimes, I grant you, and cantanberous, the poisoner of his word, but, lice and all and semicoloured stainedglasses, I’m enormously full of that foreigner, I’ll say I am!

Got by the one goat, suckled by the same nanna, one twitch, one nature makes us oldworld kin.

We’re as thick and thin now as two tubular jawballs.

I hate him about his patent henesy, blasph it, yet am I amorist.

I love him.

I love his old portugal’s nose.

There’s the nasturtium for ye now that saved manny a poor sinker from water on the grave.

The diasporation of all pirates and quinconcentrum of a fake like Basilius O’Cormacan MacArty?

To camiflag he turned his shirt.

Isn’t he after borrowing all before him, making friends with everybooby, red in Rossya, white in Alba, and touching every distinguished Ourishman he could ever distinguish before or behind from a Yourishman for the customary halp of a crown and peace?

He is looking aged with his pebbled eyes, and johnnythin too from livicking on pidgins’ ifs with puffins’ ands.

He’s been slanderising himself, but I pass no remark.

Hope he hasn’t the cholera.

Give him an eyot in the farout.

Moseses and Noasies, how are you?

He’d be as snug as Columbsisle Jonas wrocked in the belly of the whaves, as quotad before.

Brayvo, senior chief!

Famose!

Sure there’s nobody else in touch anysides to hold a chef ’s cankle to the darling at all for sheer dare with that prisonpotstill of Spanish breans on him like the knave of trifles!

A jollytan fine demented brick and the prince of goodfilips!

Dave knows I have the highest of respect of annyone in my oweand smooth way for that intellectual debtor (obbligato!)

Mushure David R. Crozier.

