
Miss Oodles of Anems before the Luvium doeslike.

So.

And then again doeslike.

So.

And Miss Endles of Eons efter Dies of Eirae doeslike.

So.

And then again doeslike.

So.

The many wiles of Winsure.

The grocer’s bawd she slips her hand in the haricot bag, the lady in waiting sips her sup from the paraffin can, Mrs Wildhare Quickdoctor helts her skelts up the casuaway the flasht instinct she herds if a tinkle of tunder, the widow Megrievy she knits cats’ cradles, this bountiful actress leashes a harrier under her tongue, and here’s the girl who she’s kneeled in coldfeshion and she’s toold her priest (spt!)

she’s pot on a chap (chp!

), and this lass not least, this rickissime woman, who she writes foot fortunes money times over in the nursery dust with her capital thumb.

Buzz.

All runaway sheep bound back bopeep, trailing their teens behind them.

And these ways wend they.

And those ways wend they.

Winnie, Olive and Beatrice, Nelly and Ida, Amy and Rue.

Here they come back, all the gay pack, for they are the florals, from foncey and pansey to papavere’s blush, forsake-me-nought, while there’s leaf there’s hope, with primtim’s ruse and marrymay’s blossom, all the flowers of the ancelles’ garden.

But vicereversing thereout from those palms of perfection to anger arbour, treerack monatan, scourcely out of scout of ocean, virid with woad, what tornaments of complementary rages rocked the divlun from his punchpoll to his tummy’s shentre as he displaid all the oathword science of his visible disgrace!

He was feeling so funny and floored for the cue, all over which girls as he don’t know whose hue.

If goosseys gazious would but fain smile him a smile he would be fondling a praise he ate some nice bit of fluff.

But no geste reveals the unconnouth.

And they’re all odds against him, the beasties.

Scratch.

Start.

He dove his head into Wat Murrey, gave Stewart Ryall a puck on the plexus, wrestled a hurry-come-union with the Gillie Beg, wiped all his sinses, martial and menial, out of Shrove Sundy MacFearsome, excremuncted as freely as any frothblower into MacIsaac, had a belting bout, chaste to chaste, with McAdoo abutt nothing and, childhood’s age being aye the shameleast, tel a Tartaran tastarin toothsome tarrascone tourtoun, vestimentivorous chlamydophagian, imbretellated himself for any time untellable with what hung over to the Machonochie Middle from the Mac-Siccaries of the Breeks.

Home!

Allwhile, moush misquies from mungy mousie, preying in his mind, son of Everallin, within himself he swure.

Macnoon maggoty mag!

Cross of a coppersmith bishop!

He would split.

He do big squeal like holy Trichepatte.

Seek hellswhere from yank islanders the petriote’s absolation.

Mocknitza!

Genik!

He take skiff come first dagrene day overwide tumbler, rough and dark, till when bow of the shower show of the bower, with three shirts and a wind, pagoda permettant, crookolevante, the bruce, the coriolano and the ignacio.

From prudals to the secular but from the cumman to the nowter.

Byebye, Brassolis, I’m breaving!

Our war, Dully Gray!

A conans-dream of lodascircles, he here schlucefinis.

Gelchasser no more!

Mischnary for the minestrary to all the sems of Aram, Shimach, son of Ere.

Mum’s for’s maxim, ban’s for’s book and Dodgesome Dora for hedgehung sheol-mastress.

And Unkel Silanse coach in diligence.

Disconnection of the succeeding.

He wholehog himself for carberry banishment care of Pencylmania, Bretish Armerica, to melt Mrs Gloria of the Bunkers’ Trust, recorporated (prunty!

), by meteoromancy and linguified heissrohgin, quit to hail a hurry laracor and catch the Paname-Turricum and regain that absendee tarry easty, his città immediata, by an alley and detour, with farecard awailable getrennty years.

Right for Rovy the Roder.

From the safe side of distance!

Libera nostalgia!

Beate Laurentie O’Tuli!

Euro pra nobis!

Every monk his own cashel where every little ligger is his own liogotenente with inclined jambs in full purview to his pronaose and to the deretane at his reredoss.

Fuisfinister, fuyerescaper!

He would, with the greatest of ease, before of weighting midhook, by dear home trashold on the raging canal, for other-sites of Jorden (heave a hevy, waterboy!

), make one of hissens with a knocknacow and a chow collegions and fire off, gheol ghiornal, foull subustioned mullmud, his farced epistol to the hibruws.

From Cernilius, slomtime prepositus of Toumaria, to the clutch in Anteach.

Salvo!

Ledigs and jointuremen!

No more turdenskaulds!

Free leaves for ebribadies!

All tinsammon in the yord!

With harm and aches till farther alters!

Wild primates not stop him frem at rearing a writing in handy antics.

Nom de plume!

Gout strap Fenlanns!

And send Jarge for Mary Inklenders!

And daunt you logh if his vineshanky’s schwemmy!

For he is the general, make no mistake in he.

He is General Jinglesome.

Go in for scribenery with the satiety of arthurs in S.P.Q.R.ish and inform to the old sniggering publicking press and its nation of sheepcopers about the whole plighty troth between them, malady of milady made melodi of malodi, she, the lalage of lyonesses, and him, her knave arrant.

To Wildrose La Gilligan from Croppy Crowhore.

For all within crystal range.

Ukalepe.

Loathers’ Lave.

Had Days.

Nemo in Patria.

The Luncher Out.

Skilly and Carubdish.

A Wondering Wreck.

From the Mermaids’ Tavern.

Bullyfamous.

Naughseecalves.

Mother of Misery.

Walpurgas Nackt.

Maleesh!

He would bare to untired world of Leimunconnulstria (and what a strip poker globbtrottel they pairs would looks!)

how Wholephallows, his guffer, the sabbatarian (might faction split his beard!

), he too had a greak big oh in the megafundum of his tomashunders and how Her Lettyshape, his gummer, that congealieel sponsar, she had never cessed at waking malters among the jemassons since the cluft that meataxe delt her made her microchasm as gap as down low.

So they fished in the kettle and fought free and if she bit his tallibont all had tiffin for tea.

He would jused sit it all write down just as he would jused set it up all writhefully rate in blotch and voide, yielding to no man in hymns ignorance, seeing how heartsilly sorey he was, owning to the condrition of his bikestool.

And, reading off his flesh-skin and writing with his quillbone, fillfull nine quires with it for his auditers, Caxton and Pollock, a most moraculous jeerymyhead, sindbook for all the peoples, under the presidency of the suchess of sceauonsceau, a had-tobe heldin, thoroughly enjoyed by many so meny on block at Boyrut season and for their account ottorly admired by her husband in sole intimacy, about whose told his innersense and the grusomehed’s yoeureeke of his spectrescope and why he was off colour and how he was ambothed upon by the very spit of himself, first on the cheakside by Michelangelo and then, besouns thats, on the owld jowly side by Bill C. Babby, and the suburb’s formule why they provencials drollo eggspilled him out of his homety domety narrowedknee domum (osco de basco de pesco de bisco!)

because all his creature comfort was an omulette finas erbas in anark finis orbe and, no master how mustered, mind never mend, he would neither swink in nonneither swimp in the flood of cecialism and the best and schortest way of blacking out a caughtalook of all the sorrors of Sexton until he would accoster her coume il fou in teto-dous as a wagoner would his mudheeldy wheesindonk at their trist in Parisise after tourments of tosend years, breads cast out on waters, making goods at mutuurity, Mondamoiseau of Casanuova and Mademoiselle from Armentières.

Neblonovi’s Nivonovio!

Nobbio and Nuby in ennoviacion!

Occitantitempoli!

He would sit through severalls of sanctuaries maywhatmay mightwhomight so as to meet somewhere, if produced, on a demipanssion for his whole lofetime, payment in gootoslee Music and poisonal comfany, following which, like Ipsey Secumbe, when he fing an to foil the fluter, she could have all the g. s. M. she moohooed after fore and rickwards to herslF, including science of sonorous silence, while he, being brung up on soul butter, have recourse of course to poetry.

With, for his coronachion, tears such as engines weep.

Was liffe worth leaving?

Nej!

Tholedoth, treetrene!

Zokrahsing, stone!

Arty, reminiscensitive, at bandstand finale on grand carriero, dreaming largesse of lifesighs over early lived offs—all old Sator of the Sowsceptre’s highly nutritius family histrionic, genitricksling with Avus and Avia, that simple pair, and descendant down on veloutypads by a vuncular process to Nurus and Noverca, those notorious nepotists, circumpictified in their sobrine census, patriss all of them by the glos on their germane faces and their socerine eyes like transparents of vitricus, patruuts to a man, the archimade levirs of his ekonome world.

Remember thee, castle throwen?

Ones propsperups treed, now stohony baroque.

And oil paint use a pumme if yell trace me there title to where was a hovel not a havel (the first rattle of his juniverse) with a tingtumtingaling and a next, next and next (gin a paddy?

got a petty?

gussies, gif it ope?

), while itch ish shome.

— My Cod, alas, that dear old tumtum home Whereof in youthfood’s port I preyed Amonk thy verdigrassy convinct wallsall dazed And cloitered for amourmeant in thy boosome shede!

His mouthfull of ecstasy (for Shing-Yung-Thing in Shina from Yoruyume across the Timor Sea), hereapong (maladventure!)

shot pinging upthrough the errorooth of his wisdom (who thought him a Fonar all, feastking of shellies by googling Lovvey, regally feythered, eagelly plumed, and wasbut gumboil owrithy prods wretched some horsey megee plods coffin acid odarkery pluds dense floppens mugurdy) as thought it had been zawhen intwo.

Wholly’s anguish blooded up disconvulsing the fixtures of his fizz.

Apang which his temporychewer med him a crazy chump of a Haveajube Sillsyass.

Joshua Croesus, son of Nunn!

Though he shall live for millions of years a life of billions of years, from their roseaced glows to their violast lustres, he shall not forget that pucking Pugases.

Holihowlsballs and bloody acres!

Like gnawthing unheardth!

But, by Jobe, Chronides, Seed of Summ, after at he had bate his breast-plates for, forfor, forforget, forforgetting his birdsplace, it was soon that, that he, that he rehad himself.

By a prayer?

No, that comes later.

By contrite attrition?

Nay, that we passed.

Mid esercizism?

So is richt.

And it was so.

And Malthos Moramor resumed his soul.

With: Go Ferchios off to Allad out of this!

An oldsteinsong.

He threwed his fit up to his aers, rolled his poligone eyes, snivelled from his snose and blew the guff out of his hornypipe.

The hopjoint jerk of a ladle broom jig that he learned in locofoco when a redhot turnspite he.

Under reign of old Roastin the Bowl.

Ratskillers, readyos!

Why was that man for he’s doin her wrong?

Lookery looks, how he’s knots in his entrails!

Mookery mooks, it’s a grippe of his gripes.

Seekeryseeks, why his biting he’s head off?

Cokerycokes, it’s his spurt of coal.

And may his tarpitch dilute not give him chromitis!

For the mauwe that blinks you blank is mostly Carbo.

Where the inflammabilis might pursuive his comburenda with a pure flame and a true flame and a flame all-toogasser.

Soot.

The worst is over.

Wait!

And the Dubuny Mag may gang to preesses.

With Dinny Finneen, me canty ho!

In the lost of the gleamens.

Sousymoust.

For he would himself deal a treatment as might be trusted in anticipation of his inculmination unto fructification for the major operation.

When (pip!)

a message interfering intermitting interskips from them (pet!)

on herzian waves (call her venicey names!

call her a stell!

), a butterfly from her zipclasped handbag, a wounded dove astarted from, escaping out her forecotes.

Isle wail for yews, O doherlynt!

The poetesser.

And around its scorched cap she has twilled a twine of flame to let the laitiest know how she’s marrid.

And pim it goes backballed.

Tod burns it so leste.

A claribel cumbeck to errind.

Hers before his even, posted ere penned.

He’s your change, thinkyou methim!

Go daft noon, madden, mind the step.

Please stoop O to please.

Stop.

What saying?

I have soreunder from to him now, dearmate ashore, so, O so comepleasely, though I’d much rather not, Pepette, till I can get redressed.

Like things are, m.ds.

is all in vincibles, which means the end of my stays in the languish of Tingtangle.

Is you zealous of mes, brother?

Did you boo moiety lowd?

You suppoted to be the on conditionally reejected?

Satanly, lade!

Can that sobstuff, Whingeywilly!

Stop up, mavrose, and sit in my lap.

Decoded.

Now a run for his money!

Now a dash to her dot!

Old cocker, young crowy, sifadda, sosson.

A bran, new speedhound, outstripperous on the wind.

Like a waft to wingweary one or a sos to a coastguard.

For directly with his whoop, stoop and an upalepsy didando a tishy, in appreciably less time than it takes a glaciator to submerger an Atlangthis, was he again, agob, before the trembly ones, a spark’s gap off, doubledasguesched, gotten orlop in a simplasailormade and shaking the storm out of his hiccups.

The smartest vessel you could find would elazilee him on her knee as her lucky for the Rio Grande.

He’s a pigtail tarr and if he hadn’t got it toothick he’d a telltale tall of his pitcher on a wall with his photure in the papers for cutting moutonlegs and capers, letting on he’d jest be japers and his tail cooked up.

Goal!

It’s one by its length.

Angelinas, hide from light those hues that your ain beau may bring to night!

Though down to your dowerstrip he’s bent to knee he maun’t know ledgings here.

For a haunting way will go and you need not make your mow.

Find the frenge for frocks and translace it into shocks of such as touch with show and show.

He is guessing at hers for all he is worse, the seagoer.

Hark to his wily geeses goosling by, and playfair, lady!

And note that they who will for exile say can for dog while them that won’t leave ingle end says now for know.

For he faulters how hehates to trouble them withbut.

But leaving codhead’s mitre and the heron’s plumes sinistrant to the server of servants and rex of regums and making a balderdash for lubberty of speech, he asks not have you seen a match being struck nor is this powder mine but, letting punplay pass to ernest: — Haps thee jaoneofergs?

— Nao.

— Haps thee mayjaunties?

— Naohao.

— Haps thee per causes nunsibellies?

— Naohaohao.
