Woman’s garments on chair.

Man’s trousers with crossbelt braces, collar, on bedknob.

Man’s corduroy surcoat with seapen nacre buttons, tabrets and taces on nail, wall right.

Woman’s gown on ditto, ditto left.

Over mantelpiece picture of Michael, lance, slaying Satan, dragon with smoke.

Small table near bed, front.

Bed with bedding.

Spare.

Flagpatch quilt.

Yverdown design.

Limes.

Lighted lamp without globe, scarf, gazette, tumbler, quantity of water, julepot, ticker, side props, eventuals, man’s gummy article, pink.

A time.

Act: dumbshow.

Closeup.

Leads.

Man, with nightcap, in bed, fore.

Woman, with curlpins, hind.

Discovered.

Side point of view.

First position of harmony.

Say!

Eh?

Ha!

Check action.

Matt!

Male partly masking female.

Domicy.

Man looking round, beastly expression, fishy eyes, paralleliped homoplatts, ghazometron pondus, exhibits rage.

Business.

Ruddy blond, Armenian bole, black patch, beer wig, gross build, episcopalian, any age.

Woman, sitting, looks at ceiling, haggish expression, peaky nose, trekant mouth, fithery wight, exhibits fear.

Welshrabbit teint, Nubian shine, nasal fossette, turfy tuft, undersized, free kirk, no age.

Closeup.

Play!

Callboy.

Cry, off.

Tabler.

Her move.

Footage.

By the sinewy forequarters of the mare Pocahontas and by the white shoulders of Finnuala, you should have seen how that smart sallowlass just hopped a nanny’s gambit out of bunk like old Mother Mesopotomac and in eight and eight sixtyfour she was off, door, knightlamp with her, billy’s largelimbs prodgering after to queen’s lead.

Promiscuous Omebound to Fiammella la Diva.

Huff!

His move.

Blackout.

Circus.

Corridor.

Shifting scene.

Wall flats: sink and fly.

Spotlight working wallcloths.

Spill playing rake and bridges.

Room to sink: stairs to sink behind room.

Two pieces.

Kaying after qeue.

Replay.

The old humburgh looks a thing incomplete, so.

It is so.

On its dead.

But it will pawn up a fine head of porter when it is finished.

In the quicktime.

The castle arkwright put in a chequered staircase, certainly.

It has only one square step, to be steady, yet notwithstumbling are they stalemating backgammoner supstairs by skips and trestles tiltop double corner.

Whist while and game.

What scenic artist!

It is ideal residence for realtar.

By hims ingang tilt tinkt a tunning bell that Limen, Mr that Boggey Godde, be airwaked.

Lingling, lingling.

Be their magics in all.

Chump, do your ephort.

Shop!

Please shop!

Shop ado O please shop.

How hominous his house, haunt it?

Yesses, indead it be!

Nogen, of imperial measure, is begraved beneather.

Here are his naggins poured, his alladim lamps.

Around the bloombiered, booty with the bedst.

For them whom he have fordone make we newly thankful!

Tell me something.

The Porters, so to speak, after their shadowstealers in the newsbaggers, are very nice people, are they not?

Very, all fourlike tellt.

And on this wise.

Mr Porter (Bartholomew, heavy man, astern, mackerel shirt, hayamatt peruke) is an excellent forefather and Mrs Porter (leading lady, apoopahead, gaffneysaffron nightdress, iszoppy chepelure) is a most kindhearted messmother.

A so united family pateramater is not more existing on papel or off of it.

As keymaster fits the lock it weds so this bally builder to his streamline secret.

They care for nothing except everything that is allporterous.

Porto da Brozzo!

Isn’t that terribly nice of them?

You can ken that they come of a rarely old family by their costumance and one must togive that one supped of it in all tonearts from awe to zest.

I think I begin to divine so much.

Only snakkest me truesome!

I stone us I’m hable.

To reachy a skeer do!

Still hoyhra, till venstra!

Here are two rooms on the upstairs, at forkflank and at knifekanter.

Whom in the wood are they for?

Why, for little porter babes, to be saved!

The coeds, boytom thwackers and timbuy teaser.

Here is onething you owed two noe.

This one once upon awhile was the other but this is the other one nighadays.

Ah so?

The Corsicos?

They are numerable.

Guest them!

Major bed, minor beddies.

Halosobuth, sov us!

Who sleeps in now number one, for example?

A pussy, purr esimple.

Cunina, Statulina and Edulia, but how sweet of her!

Has your pussy a pessname?

Yes, indeed, you will hear it passim in all the noveletta and she is named Buttercup.

Her bare name will tellt it, a monitress.

How very sweet of her and what an excessively lovecharming missyname to forsake, now that I come to drink of it filtred, a gracecup fulled of bitterness.

She is dadad’s lottiest daughterpearl and brooder’s cissiest auntybride.

A more intriguant bambolina could one not colour up out of Boccuccia’s Enameron.

Her shellback thimblecasket mirror only can show her dearest friendeen.

To speak well her grace it would ask of Grecian language; of her goodness, that legend golden.

Biryina Saindua!

Loreas with lillias flocaflake arrosas!

Here’s newyearspray, the posquiflor, a windaborne and heliotrope; there miriamsweet and amaranth and marygold to crown.

Add lightest knot unto tiptition.

O Charis!

O Charissima!

Would one but to do apart a lilybit her virginelles and, so, to breath, so, therebetween, behold, she had instantt with her hand made as to graps the myth inmid the air.

Mother of moth!

I will to show herword in flesh.

Approach not, for ghost sake!

It is dormition!

She may think, what though little doth she realise, as morning fresheth, it hath happened her, you know what, as they too what I dare not utter.

Silvoo plush, if scolded she draws a face.

Petticoat’s asleep but in the gentlenest of her thoughts apoo is a nursepin.

To be presented, Babs for Bimbushi?

Of courts and with enticers.

Up, girls, and at him!

Alone?

Alone what?

I mean does she do fleurty winkies with herself?

Pussy is never alone, as records her chambrette, for she can always look at Biddles and talk petnames with her little playfilly when she is sitting downy on the ploshmat.

Doth Dolly weeps she is hasting.

Will Dally bumpsetty ’tis for tubtime.

O, she talks, does she?

Marry, how?

Rosepetalletted sounds.

Ah Biddles es ma plikplak.

Ah plikplak wed ma Biddles.

A nice jezebel barytinette she will gift, this strifestirrer, but I much prefer her missnomer in maidenly golden lasslike gladsome wenchful flowery girlish beautycapes.

Dulcidelicatissima!

So do I, much.

Allaliefest, she who pities very pebbles, dare we not wish on her our thrice onsk?

A lovely fear!

That she seventip toe her chrysming, that she spin blaa to scarlach till her templar veil, that the Mount of Whoam it open it her to shelterer!

She will blow ever so much more promisefuller, blee me, than all the other common marygales that romp round brigidschool, charming Carry Whambers or saucy Susy Maucepan or merry Anna Patchbox or silly Polly Flinders.

Platsch!

A plikaplak.

And, since we are talking amnessly of bunkasloop and crazdledaze, who doez in sleeproom number twobis?

The twobirds.

Holy policeman, O, I see!

Of what age are your birdies?

They are to come of twinning age so soon as they may be born to be eldering like those olders while they are living under chairs.

They are?

And they seem to be so tightly tattached as two maggots to touch other, I think I notice, do I not?

You do.

Our bright bull babe, Frank Kevin, is on heartsleeveside.

Do not you waken him!

Our farheard bode.

He is happily to sleep, limb of the Lord, with his lifted in blessing, his bachal Iosa, like the blissed angel he looks so like and his mou is semiope as though he were blowdelling on a bugigle.

Whene’er I see those smiles in eyes ’tis Father Quinn again.

Very shortly he will smell sweetly when he will hear a weird to wean.

By gorgeous, that boy will blare some knight when he will take his dane’s pledges and quit our ingletears, spite of undesirable parents, to wend him to Amorica to quest a cushy job.

That keen dean with his veen nonsolance!

O, I adore the profeen music!

Dollarmighty!

He is too audorable really, eunique!

I guess to have seen somekid like him in the storybook, guess I met somewhere somelamb to whom he will be becoming liker.

But hush!

How unpardonable of me!

I beg you for your venials, sincerely I do.

Hush!

The other, twined on codliverside, has been crying in his sleep, making sharpshape his inscissors on some first choice sweets fished out of the muck.

A stake in our mead.

What a teething wretch!

How his book of craven images!

Here are posthumious tears on his intimelle.

And he has pipettishly bespilled himself from his foundingpen, as ill spent from inkinghorn.

He is jem job joy pip paa pat (jot um for a sobrat!)

Jerry Jehu.

You will know him by names in the capers but you cannot see whose heel he sheepfolds in his wrought hand because I have not told it to you.

O foetal sleep!

Ah, fatal slip!

The one loved, the other left, the bride of pride leased to the stranger!

He will be quite within the pale when with lordbeeron brow he vows him so tosset to be of the sir blake tribes while through life’s unblest he rodes by backs of bannars.

Bleak!

Are you not somewhat bulgar with your bowels?

Whatever do you mean with sour bleak?

With pale blake I write tintingface.

O, you do?

And with steelwhite and blackmail I scent for my sweet an anemone’s letter with a gold of my bridest hair betied.

Donatus his mark, address as follows.

So you did?

From the Cat and Cage.

