Dogging you round cove and haven and teaching me the perts of speech.

If you spun your yarns to him on the swishbarque waves I was spilling my yearns to her over cottage cake.

We’ll not disturb their sleeping duties.

Let besoms be bosuns.

It’s Phoenix, dear.

And the flame is, hear!

Let’s our joornee saintomichael make it.

Since the lausafire has lost and the book of the depth is.

Closed.

Come!

Step out of your shell!

Hold up you free fings!

Yes.

We’ve light enough.

I won’t take our laddy’s lampern.

For them four old windbags of Gustsofairy to be blowing at.

Nor you your rucksunck.

To bring all the dannymans out after you on the hike.

Send Arctur guiddus!

Isma!

Sft!

It is the softest morning that ever I can ever remember me.

But she won’t rain showerly, our Ilma.

Yet.

Until it’s the time.

And me and you have made our.

The sons of bursters won in the games.

Still, I’ll take me owld Finvara for my shawldhers.

The trout will be so fine at brookfisht.

With a taste of roly polony from Blugpuddels after.

To bring out the tang of the tay.

Is’t you fain for a roost brood?

Oaxmealsturn, all out of the woolpalls!

And then all the chippy young cuppinjars cluttering round us, clottering for their creams.

Crying, me, grownup sister!

Are me not truly?

Lst!

Only but, there’s a but, you must buy me a fine new girdle too, nolly.

When next you go to Market Norkwall.

They’re all saying I need it since the one from Isaacsen’s slooped its line.

Mrknrk?

Fy arthou!

Come.

Give me your great bearspaw, padder avilky, fol a miny tiny.

Dola.

Mineninecyhandsy.

In the languo of flows.

That’s my Jorgen Jargonsen.

But you understood, nodst?

I always know by your brights and shades.

Reach down.

A lil mo.

So.

Drow back your glave.

Hot and hairy, hugon, is your hand!

Here’s where the falskin begins.

Smoos as an infams.

One time you told you’d been burnt in ice.

And one time it was chemicalled after you taking a lifeness.

Maybe that’s why you hold your hodd as if.

And people thinks you missed the scaffold.

Of fell design.

I’ll close me eyes.

So not to see.

Or see only a youth in his florizel, a boy in innocence, peeling a twig, a child beside a weenywhite steed.

The child we all love to place our hope in for ever.

All men has done something.

Be the time they’ve come to the weight of old fletch.

We’ll lave it.

So.

We will take our walk before in the timpul they ring the earthly bells.

In the church by the hearseyard.

Pax goodmens will.

Or the birds start their treestirm shindy.

Look, there are yours off, high on high!

And, cooshes, sweet good luck they’re cawing you, Coole!

You see, they’re as white as the riven snae.

For us.

Next peaters’ poll you will be elicted or I’m not your elicitous bribe.

The Kinsella woman’s man will never reduce me.

A MacGarath O’Cullagh O’Muirk MacFewney sookadoodling and sweepacheeping round the lodge of Fjorn na Galla of the Trumpets!

It’s like potting the po to shambe on the dresser or tamming Uncle Tim’s Caubeen on to the brows of a Viker Eagle.

Not such big strides, huddy foddy!

You’ll crush me antilopes I saved so long for.

They’re Penisole’s.

And the two goodiest shoeshoes.

It is hardly a Knut’s mile or seven, possumbotts.

It is very good for the health of a morning.

With Buahbuah.

A gentle motion all around.

As leisure paces.

And the helpyourselftoastrool cure’s easy.

It seems so long since, ages since.

As if you had been long far away.

Afartodays, afeartonights, and me as with you in thadark.

You will tell me some time if I can believe its all.

You know where I am bringing you?

You remember?

When I ran berrying after hucks and haws.

With you drawing out great aims to hazel me from the hummock with your sling.

Oar cries.

I could lead you there and I still by you in bed.

Les go dutc to Danegreven, nos?

Not a soul but ourselves.

Time?

We have loads on our hangs.

Till Gilligan and Halligan call again to hooligan.

And the rest of the guns, Sullygan eight, from left to right.

Olobobo, ye foxy theagues!

The moskors thought to ball you out.

Or the Wald Unicorn’s Master, Bugley Captain from the Naul, drawls up by the door with the Honourable Whilp and the Reverend Poynter and the two Lady Pagets of Tallyhaugh, Ballyhuntus, in their riddletight raiding hats for to lift a hereshealth to their robost, the Stag, evers the Carlton hart.

And you needn’t host out with your duck and your duty, capapole, while they reach him the glass he never starts to finish.

Clap this wis on your poll and stick this in your ear, wiggly!

Beauties don’t answer and the rich never pays.

If you were the enlarged they’d hue in cry you, Heathtown, Harbourstown, Snowtown, Four Knocks, Flemingtown, Bodingtown to the Ford of Fyne on Delvin.

How they housed to house you after the Platonic garlens!

And all because, loosed in her reflexes, she seem she seen Ericoricori coricome huntsome with his three poach dogs aleashing him.

But you came safe through.

Enough of that horner corner!

And old mutthergoosip!

We might call on the Old Lord, what do you say?

There’s something tells me.

He is a fine sport.

Like the score and a moighty went before him.

And a proper old promnentory.

His door always open.

For a newera’s day.

Much as your own is.

You invoiced him last Eatster so he ought to give us hockockles and everything.

Remember to take off your white hat, ech?

When we come in the presence.

And say hoothoothoo, ithmuthisthy!

His is house of laws.

And I’ll drop my graciast kertssey too.

If the Ming Tung no go bo to me homage me hamage kow bow tow to the Mong Tang.

Ceremonialness to stand lowest place be!

Saying: What’ll you take to link to light a pike on porpoise, plaise?

He might knight you an Armor elsor daub you the first cheap magyarstrape.

Remember Bomthomanew vim vam vom Hungerig.

Hoteforme, chain and epolettes, botherbumbose.

And I’ll be your aural eyeness.

But we vain.

Plain fancies.

It’s in the castles air.

My currant bread’s full of silly-mottocraft.

Aloof is enoof.

We can take or leave.

He’s reading his ruffs.

You’ll know our way from there, surely?

Flura’s way.

Where once we led so many car couples have follied since.

Clatchka!

Giving Shaughnessy’s mare the hillymount of her life.

With her strulldeburgghers!

Hnmn hnmn!

The rollcky road adondering.

We can sit us down on the heathery benn, me on you, in quolm unconsciounce.

To scand the arising.

Out from Drumleek.

It was there Evora told me I had best.

If I ever.

When the moon of mourning is set and gone.

Over Glinaduna.

Lonu nula.

Ourselves, oursouls alone.

At the site of salvocean.

And watch would the letter you’re wanting be coming may be.

And cast ashore.

That I prays for be mains of me draims.

Scratching it and patching at with a prompt from a primer.

And what scrips of nutsnolleges I pecked up be meself.

Every letter is a hard but yours sure is the hardest crux ever.

Hack an axe, hook an oxe, hath an ans, heth hithences.

But once done, dealt and delivered, tattat, you’re on the map.

Based on traumscrapt from Maston, Boss.

After rounding his world of ancient days.

Carried in a caddy or screwed and corked.

On his mugisstosst surface.

With a bob, bob, bottledby.

Blob.

When the waves give up yours the soil may for me.

Sometime then, somewhere there, I wrote me hopes and buried the page when I heard Thy voice, ruddery dunner, so loud that none but, and left it to lie till a kissmess coming.

So content me now.

Lss.

Unbild and be buildn our bankaloan cottage there and we’ll cohabit respectable.

The Gowans, ser, for Medem, me.

With acute bubel runtoer for to pippup and gopeep where the sterres be.

Just to see would we hear how Jove and the peers talk.

Amid the soleness.

Tiltop, bigmaster!

Scale the summit!

You’re not so giddy now any more.

All your graundplotting and the little it brought!

Humps, when you hised us, and dumps, when you doused us!

But sarra one of me cares a brambling ram, pomp porteryark!

On limpidy marge I’ve made me hoom.

Park and a pub for me.

Only don’t start your stunts of Donachie’s yeards agoad.

I could guessp to her name who tuckt you that one, tufnut!

Bold bet backwords.

