Almost dotty!

I must dash!)

to pour their peace in partial (floflo floreflorence), sweetishsad lightandgayle, twittwin twosingwoolow.

Let everie sound of a pitch keep still in reasonance, jemcrow, jackdaw, prime and secund with their terce that whoe betwides them, now full theorb, now dulcifair, and when we press of pedal (sof!)

pick out and vowalise your name.

A mun.

You pere Golazy, you mere Bare and you Bill Heeny, and you Smirky Dainty and, more beethoken, you whackfoolthenairyans with all your badchthumpered peanas!

We are gluckglucky in our being so far fortunate that, bark and bay duol with Man Goodfox inchimings having ceased to the moment, so allow the clinkars of our nocturne field, night’s sweetmoztheart, their Carmen Sylvae, my quest, my queen.

Lou must wail to cool me airly!

Coil me curly, warbler dear!

May song it flourish (in the underwood), in chorush, long make it flourish (in the Nut, in the Nut sky) till thorush!

Secret hookup.

— Roguenaar Loudbrags, that soddy old samph!

How hijh is vuile, vat?

To which yes he did, capt, that was the answer.

— And his shartshort trooping its colours!

We knows his ventruquulence.

Which tuat tuat rang ripprippripplying.

— Bulbul, bulbulone!

I will shally.

Thou shalt willy.

You wouldnt should as youd remesmer.

I hypnot.

’Tis golden sickle’s hour.

Holy moon priestess, we’d love our grappes of mistellose!

Moths the matter?

Pschtt!

Tabarius comes.

To fell our fairest.

O gui, O gui!

Salam, saluis salaum!

Caroluis!

O indeed and we ware!

And hoody crow was ere.

I soared from the peach and Missmolly showed her pear too, onto three and away.

Whet the bee as to deflowret greendy grassies yellowhorse.

Hematitis, cele our erdours!

Did you aye, did you eye, did you everysee, suchaway, suchawhy, eeriewhigg airywhugger?

Even to the extremity of the world?

Dingoldell!

The enormanous his, our littlest little!

Wee wee, that long alancey one!

Let sit on this anthill for our frilldress talk after this day of making blithe inveiled the heart before our groatsupper serves to us Panchomaster and let harleqwind play peeptomine up all our colombinations!

Wins won is nought, twigs too is nil, tricks trees makes nix, fairs fears stoops at nothing.

And till Arthur comes againus and sen peatrick’s he’s reformed we’ll pose him together a piece, a pace.

Shares in guineases!

There’s lovely the sight!

Surey me, man weepful!

Big Seat, you did hear?

And teach him twisters in tongue irish.

Pat lad may goh too.

Quicken, aspen; ash and yew; willow, broom with oak for you.

And move your tellabout.

Not nice is that, limpet lady!

Spose we try it promissly.

Love all.

Nay tellmeknot tennis!

Taunt me treattening!

But do now say to Mr Eustache!

Ingean mingen has to hear.

Whose joint is out of jealousy now?

Why, heavilybody’s evillyboldy’s.

Hopping Gracius, onthy ovful!

O belessk me, what a nerve!

How a mans in his armor we nurses know.

Wingwong welly, pitty pretty Nelly!

Some Poddy putted in, will anny petty pullet out?

Call Kitty Kelly!

Kissykitty, killykelly!

What a nossowl buzzard!

But what a neats ung gels!

Here all the leaves alift aloft, full o’ liefing, fell a-laughing over Ombrellone and his parasollieras with their black thornguards from the County Shillelagh.

Ignorant invincibles, innocents immutand!

Onzel grootvatter Lodewijk is onangonamed before the bridge of primerose and his twy Isas Boldmans is met the blueybells near Dandeliond.

We think it’s a gorsedd shame, these godoms.

A lark of limonladies!

A lurk of orangetawneymen!

You’re backley wounted, buckley mister, bester of the boyne!

And they leaved the most leavely of leaftimes and the most folliagenous till there came the marrer of mirth and the jangtherapper of all jocolarinas and they were as were they never ere.

Yet had they laughtered, one on other, undo the end and enjoyed their laughings merry was the timeswhen so grant it High Hilarion us may too!

Cease, prayee, storywalkering around with gestare romanoverum he swinking about is they think and plan unrawil what.

Back to Droughty!

The water of the face has flowed.

The all of them, the gowriegueuxers, blottyeyed boys, in that pig’s village smoke, a sixdigitarian legion on druid circle, the Clandibblon clam cartel, foursquared in condomnation of his totomptation and for the duration till his repepulation, then pulled out and came off and rally agreed, their roasted malts with mullable malmseys, upon old nollcromforemost ironsides, as cainnabel chieftain, since, as sammon trowed to explain to summon, seeing that, as he had contracted out of islands empire, he might as coolly have rolled to school call, tarponturboy, a grampurpoise, the manyfathom brinegroom with the fortyinch bride, out of the cuptin klanklord kettle auction like the soldr of a britsh he was bound to be and become till the sea got him whilask, from maker to misses and what he gave way as a pattern, he, that hun of a horde, is a finn as she, his tent wife, is a lap, at home on a steed, abroad by the fire (to say nothing of him having done whatyouknow howyousaw whenyouheard whereyouwot, the kenspeckled souckar, generose as cocke, greediguss with garzelle, uprighter of age and most umbrasive of yews all, under heaviest corpsus exemption), and whoasever spit her in howsoever’s profocation it was anybody’s beastness as usual and she was noboddy’s fondling saving her keepers that mould the bould she sould to hould the wine that wakes the barley, the peg in his pantry to hold the heavyache off his heart.

The droll delight of deemsterhood, a win from the wood to bond.

Like the bright lamp, Thamamahalla, yearin out yearin.

Auspicably suspectable but in expectancy of respectableness.

From dirty flock bedding, drip dropping through the ceiling, with two sisters of charities on the front steps and three evacuan cleansers at the back gaze, single box and pair of chairs (susceptible), occasionally and alternatively used by husband when having writing to do in connection with equitable druids and friendly or other societies through periods of dire want with comparative plenty (thunderburst, ravishment, dissolution and providentiality) to a sofa allbeit of hoarsehaar with Amodicum cloth, hired payono, still playing off, used by the youngsters for czurnying out oldstrums, three bedrooms upastairs, of which one with fireplace (aspectable), with greenhouse in prospect (particularly perspectable).

And you, when you kept at Dulby, were you always (for that time only) what we knew how when we (from that point solely) were you know where?

There you are!

And why?

Why, hitch a cock eye, he was snapped on the sly upsadaisying coraspearls out of the pie when all the perts in princer street set up their tinker’s hymm (the rann, the rann, that keen of old bards) with them newnesboys pearcin screaming off their armsworths.

The boss made dovesandraves out of his bucknesst while herself wears the bowler’s hat in her bath.

Deductive Almayne Rogers disguides his voice, shelters behind hoax chestnote from exsessive.

Heat wives rasing.

They jest keeps rosing.

He jumps leaps rising.

Howlong!

You known that tom?

I certainly know.

Is their bann bothstiesed?

Saddenly now.

Has they bane reneemed?

Soothinly low.

Does they ought to buy the papelboy when he footles up their suit?

He’s their mark to foil the flouter and they certainty owe.

He sprit in his phiz (baccon!).

He salt to their biz (pudden!).

He toockled her palam (so calam is solom!).

And he suked their friends’ leave (bonnick lass, fair weal!).

— Guilty but fellows culpows!

It was felt by me, sindecade, that submerged doughdoughty doubleface told waterside labourers.

But since we for athome’s health have chanced all that, the wild whips, the wind ships, the wonderlost for world hips, unto their trust prayed in aid its plumptylump piteousness which, when it turtled around seeking a thud of surf, spoke to approach from inherdoff trisspass through minxmingled hair.

Though I may have hawked it, said, and selled my how hot peas after theactrisscalls from my imprecurious position and though achance I could have emptied a pan of backslop down drain by whiles of dodging a rere from the middenprivet appurtenant thereof, salving the presents of the board of wumps and pumps, I am ever incalpable, where release of prisonals properly is concerned, of unlifting upfallen girls wherein dangered from them in thereopen out of unadulteratous bowery, with those hintering influences from an angelsexonism.

It was merely my barely barley till their oh offs.

Missaunderstaid.

Meggy Guggy’s giggag.

The code’s proof!

The rebald danger with they who would bare whiteness against me I dismissem from the mind of good.

He can tell such as story to the Twelfth Maligns that my first was a nurssmaid and her fellower’s a willbe perambulatrix.

There are twingty to twangty too thews and leathermail coatschemes penparing to hostpost for it valinnteerily with my valued fofavour to the past puzzles deparkment with larch parchels of presents for future branch offercings.

The green approve the raid!

Shaum Baum’s bode he is amustering in the groves while his shool comes merging along!

Want I put myself in their kirtlies I were ayearn to leap with them and show me too bisextine.

Dear and lest I forget mergers and bow to you low, marchers!

Attemption!

What a mazing month of budsome misses they are making, so a wingtywish to flit beflore their kin!

Attonsure!

Ears to hears!

The skall of a gall (for every dime he yawpens that momouth you could park your ford in it) who has papertreated him into captivities with his inside man by a hocksheat of starvision for an avragetopeace of parchment, cooking up his lenses to be my apoclogypst, the recreuter of conscraptions, let him be asservent to Kinahaun!

For (peace peace perfectpeace!)

I have abwaited me in a water of Elin and I have placed my reeds intectis before the Registower of the perception of tribute in the hall of the city of Analbe.

How concerns any merryaunt and hworsoever gravesobbers it is perensempry sex of fun to halp a dazzle off the othour.

What for Mucias and Gracias may the duvlin rape the handsomst!

And the whole mad knightmayors’ nest!

Punpother, prison and plotch!

If I shoulden somewhat, well, I am able to owe it, hearth and chemney easy.

They seeker for vannflamm all worldins merkins.

I’ll eager make lyst turpidump undher arkens.

Basast!

And if my litigimate was well to wrenn tigtag cackling about it, like the sally berd she is, to abery ham in the Cutey Strict (I shall call upon my first among my lost of lyrars, a jingoobangoist, to overcast to her), dismissing mundamanu all the riflings of her victuum gleaner (my old chuck, she drakes me druck, turning out gay at ninety!)

and well shoving off a boastonmess like lots wives does over her handpicked hunsbend, as she would be calling, well, for further oil mircles upon all her wayferer gods and reannouncing my deviltries as was I a locally person of caves until I got my purchase on her firmforhold I am, I like to think, by their sacreligion of daimond cap daimond, confessedly in my baron gentilhomme to the manhor bourne till ladiest day as panthoposopher, to have splet fort groont groont a peer of bellows like Bacchulus shakes a rousing guttural at any old cerpaintime by peaching (allsole we are not amusical) the warry warst against myself in the defile as a lieberretter sebaiscopal of these mispeachyites of the first virginial water who, without an auction of biasement from my part, with gladdyst tone ahquickyessed in it, overhowe and underwhere, the totty lolly poppy flossy conny dollymaukins!

Though I heave a coald on my bauck and am could up to my eres hoven sametimes I used alltides to be aswarmer for the meekst and the graced.

You are not going to not.

You might be threeabreasted wholenosing at a whallhoarding from our Don Amir anent villayets prostatution precisingly kusckkars tarafs and it could be double densed uncounthest hour of allbleakest age with a bad of wind and a barran of rain, nompos mentis like Novus Elector, what with his Marx and their Groups, yet did a doubt, should a dare, were I to you, you would do and dhamnk me, shenker, dhumnk you.

Skunk.

And fare with me to share with me.

Hinther and thonther, hant by hont.

By where dauvening shedders down whose rovely lanes.

As yose were and as yese is.

Sure and you would, Mr MacGurk!

Be sure and you would, Mr O’Duane!

To be sure and you would so, Mr MacElligut!

Wod you nods?

Mom mom.

No mum has the rod to pud a stub to the lurch of amotion.

My little love apprencisses, the estelles, van Nessies von Nixies voon der pool, which I had a reyal devouts for (yet was it marly lowease or just a feel with these, which olderman K. K. Alwayswelly he is showing to the fullnights, for my palmspread was gav to a parsleysprig, the curliest weedeen old ocean coils around, so spruce a spice for salthorse, sonnies, and as tear to the thrusty as Taylor’s Spring), when aftabournes, when, as Beacher seath, she was look like a little cheayat chilled (Oh Sard!

ah Mah!)

by my tide impracing, and all the colories, my dears, fair fled from my folced cheeks!

Popottes, where you canceal me you mayst forced guage my bribes.

Wickedgapers, I appeal against the light!

A nexistence of vividence!

Panto, boys, is on a looser inloss; ballet, girls, suppline thrown tights.

I have wanted to thank you such a long time now so much.

Thank you.

Sir, kindest of bottleholders and very dear friend, among our hearts of steel, froutiknaw, it will befor you, me dare beautiful young soldier, winninger nor anyour af rudimental moskats, before you go to mats, you who have watched your share with your sockboule sodalists on your bunted nogs at our love tennis squats regatts, suckpump, when on with the balls did disserve the fain, my goldrush gainst her silvernetss, to say, biguidd, for the love of goddess and perthanow as you reveres your one mothers, mitsch for matsch, and while I reveal thus my deepseep daughter which was bourne up pridely out of medsdreams unclouthed when I was pillowing in my brime (of Saturnay Eve, how now, weren’t we’t?

), to see, I say, whoahoa, in stay of execution in re Milcho Melekmans, increaminated, what you feel, oddrabbit, upon every strong ground you have ever taken up, by bitterstiff work or battonstaff play, with assault of turk against a barrakraval of grakeshoots, e’en tho’ Jambuwel’s defecalties is Terry Shimmyrag’s upperturnity, if that is grace for the grass what is balm for the bramblers, as it is as it is, that I am the catasthmatic old ruffin sippahsedly improctor to be seducing trovatellas, the dire dafty damedeaconesses, like (why sighs the soothesinger) the lilliths oft I feldt, and when booboob brutals and cautiouses only aims at the oggog hogs in the humans, then (Houtes, Blymey and Torrenation, upkurts and scotchem!)

I’ll tall tale tell croon paysecurers, sowill nuggets and nippers, that thash on me stumpen blows the gaff off mombition and thit thides of marse makes a good dayle to be shattat.

Fall stuff.

His rote in ere, afstef, was.

And dong wonged Magongty till the bombtomb of the warr, thrusshed in his whole soort of cloose.

Whisht who wooed in Weald, bays of Bawshaw binding.

The desire of Miriam is the despair of Marian as John Joseph’s beauty is Jacq Jacob’s grief.

Brow, tell nun; eye, feign sad; mouth, sing mim.

Look at Lokman!

Whatbetween the cupgirls and the platterboys.

And he grew back into his grossery baseness: and, for all his grand remonstrance, there you are.

Here endeth chinchinatibus with have speak finish.

With a haygue for a halt on a pouncefoot pause.

Pink, pleas pink, two pleas pink, how two pleas pink.

Punk.

Mask one.

Mask two.

Mask three.

Mask four.

Up.

— Look about you, Tutty Comyn!

— Remember and recall, Kullykeg!

— When visiting Dan Leary try the corner house for thee.

— I’ll gie ye credit for sixmence more if ye’ll be lymphing our four avunculusts.

And, since threestory sorratelling was much too many, they maddened and they morgued and they lungd and they jowld.

Synopticked on the word.

Till the Juke done it.

Down.

Like Jukoleon, the seagoer, when he bore down in his pyrryboat he had raised a slide and shipped his orders and seized his pullets and primed their plumages, the fionnling and dubhlet, the dun and the fire, and, sending them one by other to fare fore forn, he had beheld the residuance of a delugion: the foggy doze still going strong, the old thalassocrats of invinsible empores, maskers of the waterworld, facing one way to another way and this way on that way, from severalled their four dimmansions.

Where the lighning leaps from the numbulous; where coold by cawld breide lieth langwid; the bounds whereinbourne our solied bodies all attomed attaim arrest: appoint, that’s all.

But see what follows.

Wringlings upon wronglings among incomputables about an uncomeoutable (an angel prophetethis?

kingcorrier of beheasts?

the calif in his halifskin?

