Tried mark, Easterlings.

Sign, Sideric O’Cunnuc, Rix.

Adversed ord, Magtmorken, Kovenhow.

A die for due and Du for Dy.

There’s a great conversion, myn!

Coucous!

Find his causcaus!

From Motometusolum through Bulley and Cowlie and Diggery-diggerydock down to baseness’s usual.

He’s alight there still, by Mike!

Loose afore!

Bung!

Bring forth your deed!

Bang!

Till is the right time.

Bang!

Partick Thistle agen S. Megan’s versus Brystal Palace agus the Walsall!

Putsch!

Tiemore moretis tisturb badday!

The playgue will be soon over, rats!

Let sin!

Geh tout!

All we wants is to get peace for possession.

We dinned unnerstunned why you sassad about thurteen to aloafen, sor, kindly repeat!

Or ledn us alones of your lungorge, parsonifier propounde of our edelweissed idol worts!

Shaw and Shea are lorning obsen so hurgle up, gandfarder, and gurgle me gurk.

You can’t impose on frayshouters like os.

Every tub here spucks his own fat.

Hang coersion everyhow!

And smotthermock Gramm’s laws!

But we’re a drippindhrue gayleague all at ones.

In the buginning is the woid, in the muddle is the sounddance and thoreinofter you’re in the unbewised again, vund vulsyvolsy.

You talker dunsker’s brogue men we our souls speech obstruct hostery.

Silence in thought!

Spreach!

Wear an artful of outer nocense!

Pawpaw, wowwow!

Momerry twelfths, noebroed!

That was a good one, ha!

So it will be quite a material what May farther be unvuloped for you, old Mighty, when it’s aped to foul a delfian in the Mahnung, ha ha!

Talk of Paddybarke’s echo!

Kick nuck, Knockcastle, Muck.

And you’ll nose it, O you’ll nose it, without warnward from we.

We don’t know the sendor towhome.

But you’ll find Chiggenchugger’s taking the Treaclyshortcake with Bugle and the Bitch pairsadrawsing and Horssmayres Prosession tyghting up under the threes.

Stop.

Press stop.

To press stop.

All to press stop.

And, be the seem talkin, wharabahts hosetanzies, dat sure is sullibrated word?

Bing bong!

Saxolooter!

For congesters are salders’ prey.

Snap it up in the loose, patchy the blank!

Anyone can see you’re the son of a gunnell.

Fellow him up too, Carlow!

Woes to the wormquashed, aye, and wors to the winner!

Think of Aerian’s Wall and the Fall of Toss.

Give him another for to volleyholleydoodlem!

His lights not all out yet, the liverpooser!

Boohoohoo it oose!

With seven hores always in the home of his thinkingthings, his nodsloddledome of his noiselisslesoughts.

Two Idas, two Evas, two Nessies and Rubyjuby.

Phook!

No wonder, pipes as kirles, that he sthings like a rheinbok.

One bed night he had the delysiums that they were all queens mobbing him.

Feel stiff.

Oh, ho, ho, ho, ah, he, he!

Abedicate yourself!

It just gegs our goad.

He’ll be the deaf of us, pappappoppopcuddle, samblind daiyrudder.

Yus, sord, fathe, you woll, putty our wraughther!

What we waits be after?

Whyfore we come agooding?

None of you, cock icy!

You keep that henayearn and her fortycantle glim lookbehinder.

We might do with rubiny leeses.

But of all your wanings send us out your peppydecked ales and you’ll not be such a bad lot.

The rye is well for whose amind but the wheateny one is proper lovely.

Beng!

We sincerestly trust that Missus with the kiddies of sweet Gorteen has not B I N K to their very least tittles deranged if in B U N K and we greesiously augur for Your Meggers a B E N K B A N K B O N K to sloop in with all sorts of odceteras and adsaturas.

It’s our last fight, Megantic, fear you will!

The refergee’s took to hailing to time the pass.

There goes the blackwatchwomen, all in white, flaxed up, burgad!

Right toe, Armitage!

Tem for Tam at Timmotty Hall!

We’re been carried away.

Beyond bournes and bowers.

So we’ll leave it to Keyhoe, Danelly and Pykemhyme, the three muskrateers, at the end of this age that had it from Variants’ Katey Sherratt that had it from Variants’ Katey Sherratt’s man for the bonnefacies of Blashwhite and Blushred of the Aquasancta Liffey Patrol to wind up and to tells of all befells after that to Mocked Majesty in the Malincurred Mansion.

So you were saying, boys?

Anyhow he what?

So anyhow, melumps and mumpos of the hoose uncommons, after that to wind up that longtobechronicled gettogether thanksbetogiving day at Glenfinnisk-en-la-Valle, the anniversary of his finst homy commulion, after that same barbecue beanfeast was all over poor old hospitable corn and eggfactor King Roderick O’Conor, the paramount chief polemarch and last preelectric king of all Ireland, who was anything you say yourself between fiftyodd and fiftyeven years of age at the time after the socalled last supper he greatly gave those maltknights and beerchurls in his umbrageous house of the hundred bottles, with the radio beamer tower and its hangars, chimbneys and equilines, or at least he wasn’t actually the then last king of all Ireland for the time being for the jolly good reason that he was still such as he was the eminent king of all Ireland himself after the last preeminent king of all Ireland, the whilom joky old top that went before him in the Taharan dynasty, King Arth Mockmorrow Koughenough of the leathered leggions, now of parts unknown (God guard his generous comicsongbook soul!

), that put a poached fowl in the poor man’s pot before he took to his pallyass with the weeping eczema for better and worse until he went under the grass quilt on us nevertheless the year the sugar was scarce and we to lather and shave and frizzle him like a bald surging buoy and himself down to three cows that was meat and drink and dogs and washing to him, ’tis good cause we have to remember it, going through summersultryngs of snow and sleet with the widow Nolan’s goats and the Brownes girls neats, anyhow wait till I tell you what did he do, poor old Roderick O’Conor Rex, the auspicious waterproof monarch of all Ireland, when he found himself all alone by himself in his grand old handwedown pile after all of them had all gone off with themselves to their castles of mud, as best they cud, on footback, owing to the leak of McCarthy’s mare, in extended order, a tree’s length from the longest way out, down the switchbackward slidder of the landsown route of Hauburnea’s liveliest vinnage on the brain, the unimportant Parthalonians with the mouldy Firbolgs and the Tuatha de Danaan googs and the ramblers from Clane and all the rest of the notmuchers and other slygrogging suburbanites that he didn’t care the royal spit out of his ostensible mouth about, well, what do you think he did, sir, but, faix, he just went heeltapping through the winespilth and weevily popcorks that were kneedeep round his own right royal round rollicking topers’ table, with his old Roderick Random pullon hat at a Lanty Leary cant on him and Mike Brady’s shirt and Greene’s linnet collarbow and his Ghenter’s gaunts and his Macclefield’s swash and his readymade Reillys and his panprestuberian poncho, the body you’d pity him, the way the world is, poor he, the heart of Midleinster and the supereminent lord of them all, overwhelmed as he was with black ruin like a sponge out of water, allocutioning in bellcantos to his own oliverian society McGuiney’s Dreans of Ergen Adams and thrumming through all to himself with diversed tonguesed through his old tears and his ould plaised drawl, starkened by the most regal of belches, like a blurney Cashelmagh crooner, that larking Clare air, the blackbard’s ballad I’ve a terrible errible lot todue todie todue tootorribleday, well, what did he go and do at all His Most Exuberant Majesty King Roderick O’Conor but, arrah bedamnbut, he finalised by lowering his woolly throat with the wonderful midnight thirst was on him, as keen as mustard, he could not tell what he did ale, that bothered he was from head to tail, and, wishawishawish, leave it, what the Irish, boys, can do, if he didn’t go sliggyma-glooral reemyround and suck up, sure enough, like a Trojan, in some particular cases with the assistance of his venerated tongue, whatever surplus rotgut, sorra much, was left by the lazy lousers in the different bottoms of the various different replenquished drinking utensils left there behind them on the premises by that whole hogsheaded firkin family of departed honourable homegoers, such as it was, fall and fall about, to the brindishing of his charmed life, as toastified by his cheeriubicundenances, no matter whether it was chateaubottled Guinness’s or Phoenix brewery stout it was or John Jameson and Sons or Roob Coccola or, for the matter of that, O’Connell’s famous old Dublin ale that he wanted like hell, more than halibut oil or jesuits tea, as a fallback, of several different quantities and qualities amounting in all to, I should say, considerably more than the better part of a gill or naggin of imperial dry and liquid measure till, welcome be from us here, till the rising of the morn, till that hen of Kaven’s shows her beaconegg and Chapwellswendows stain our horyhistoricold and Father MacMichael stamps for aitch o’clerk mess and the Litvian Newestlatter is seen, sold and delivered and all’s set for restart after the silence, till like his ancestors to this day after him (that the blazings of their ouldmouldy gods may attend to them we pray!

), overopposides the cowery lad in the corner and forenenst the staregaze of the cathering candled, that adornment of his album and folkenfather of familyans, he came acrash a crupper sort of a sate on accomondation and the very boxst in all his composs, whereuponce, behome the fore for cove and trawlers, heave hone, leave lone, Larry’s on the focse and Faugh MacHugh O’Bawlar at the wheel, one to do and one to dare, par by par, a peerless pair, ever here and over there, with his fol the dee oll the doo on the flure of his feats and the feels of the fumes in the wakes of his ears our wineman from Barleyhome he just slumped to throne.

So sailed the stout ship Nansy Hans.

From Liff away.

For Nattenlaender.

As who has come returns.

Farvel, farerne!

Goodbark, goodbye!

Now follow we out by Starloe!

— Three quarks for Muster Mark!

Sure he hasn’t got much of a bark And sure any he has it’s all beside the mark.

But, O Wreneagle Almighty, wouldn’t un be a sky of a lark To see that old buzzard whooping about for uns shirt in the dark And he hunting round for uns speckled trousers around by Palmerstown Park?

Hohohoho, moulty Mark!

You’re the rummest old rooster ever flopped out of a Noah’s ark And you think you’re cock of the wark.

Fowls, up!

Tristy’s the spry young spark That’ll tread her and wed her and bed her and red her Without even winking the tail of a feather And that’s how that chap’s going to make his money and mark!

That song sang seaswans.

The winging ones, overhoved, shrillglee-screaming.

Seahawk, seagull, curlew and plover, kestrel and capercailzie.

All the birds of the sea they trolled out rightbold when they smacked the big kuss of Trustan with Usolde.

And there they were too, when it was dark, whiltes the wildcaps was circling, as slow their ship, the winds aslight, upborne the fates, the wardorse moved, by courtesy of Mr Deaubaleau Dowbellow Kaempersally, listening in, as hard as they could, in Dubbeldorp, the donker, by the tourneyold of the wattarfialls, with their vuoxens and they kemin in so hattajocky (only a quarterbuck askull for the last acts) to the solans and the sycamores and the wild geese and the gannets and the migratories and the mistlethrushes and the auspices and all the birds of the rockbysuckerassousyoceanal sea, all four of them, all sighing and sobbing, and listening.

Moykle ahoykling!

They were the big four, the four maaster waves of Erin, all listening, four.

There was old Matt Gregory and then besides old Matt there was old Marcus Lyons, the four waves, and oftentimes they used to be saying grace together, right enough, bausnabeatha, in Miracle Squeer: here now we are the four of us: old Matt Gregory and old Marcus and old Luke Tarpey: the four of us and, sure, thank God, there are no more of us: and, sure now, you wouldn’t go and forget and leave out the other fellow and old Johnny MacDougall: the four of us and no more of us and so now pass the fish for Christ’ sake, Amen: the way they used to be saying their grace before fish, repeating itself, after the interims of Augusburgh, for auld lang syne.

And so there they were, with their palms in their hands, like the pulchrum’s proculs, spraining their ears, luistening and listening to the oceans of kissening, with their eyes glistening, all the four, when he was kiddling and cuddling and bunnyhugging scrumptious his colleen bawn and dinkum belle, an oscar sister, on the fifteen inch loveseat, behind the chieftainess stewardess’s cabin, the hero, of Gaelic champion, the onliest one of her choice, her bleaueyedeal of a girl’s friend, neither bigugly nor smallnice, meaning pretty much everything to her then, with his sinister dexterity, lightandrufthandling vicemversem her ragbags et assaucyetiams, fore and aft, on and offsides, the brineburnt sexfutter, handson and huntsem, that was palpably wrong and bulbubly improper, and cuddling her and kissing her, tootyfay charmaunt, in her ensemble of maidenna blue, with an overdress of net, tickled with goldies, Isolamisola, and whisping and lisping her about Trisolanisans, how one was whips for one was two and two was lips for one was three, and dissimulating themself, with his poghue like Arrahna-poghue, the dear dear annual, they all four remembored Who made the world and how they used to be at that time in the vulgar era cuddling and kiddling her, after an oyster supper in Cullen’s barn, from under her mistlethrush and kissing and listening, in the good old bygone days of Dion Boucicault, the elder, in Arrah-na-poghue, in the otherworld of the passing of the key of Twotongue Common, with Nush, the carrier of the word, and with Mesh, the cutter of the reed, in one of the farback pitchblack centuries when Who made the world, when they knew O’Clery, the man on the door, when they were all four collegians on the nod, neer the Nodderlands Nurskery, whiteboys and oakboys, peep of tim boys and piping tom boys, raising hell while the sin was shining, with their slates and satchels, playing Florian’s fables and communic suctions and vellicar frictions with mixum members, in the Queen’s Ultonian colleges, along with another fellow, a prime number, Totius Quotius, and paying a pot of tribluts to Boris O’Brien, the buttler of Clumpthump, two looves, two turnovers plus (one) crown, to see the mad dane ating his vitals.

Wulf!

Wulf!

And throwing his tongue in the snakepit.

Ah ho!

The ladies have mercias!

It brought the dear prehistoric scenes all back again, as fresh as of yore, Matt and Marcus, natural born lovers of nature, in all her moves and senses, and after that now there he was, that mouth of mandibles vowed to pure beauty, and his Arrahna-poghue, when she murmurously, after she let a cough, gave her firm order, if he wouldn’t please mind, for a sings to one hope a dozen of the best favourite lyrical national blooms in Luvillicit, though not too much, reflecting on the situation, drinking in draughts of purest air serene and revelling in the great outdoors, before the four of them, in the fair fine night, whilst the stars shine bright, by she light of he moon, we longed to be spoon, before her honeyoldloon, the plaint effect being in point of fact there being in the whole a seatuition so shocking and scandalous and now, thank God, there were no more of them and he poghuing and poghuing like the Moreigner bowed his crusted hoed and Tilly the Tailor’s Tugged a Tar in the Arctic Newses Dagsdogs number and there they were, like a foremasters in the rolls, listening, to Rolando’s deepen darblun Ossian roll (Lady, it was just too gorgeous, that expense of a lovely tint, embellished by the charms of art and very well conducted and nicely mannered and all the horrid rudy noisies locked up in nasty cubbyhole!

), as tired as they were, the three jolly topers, with their mouths watering, along with the other fellow, so pass the poghue for Christ’ sake, Amen.

Listening and poghuing and watering, all the four, the old connubial men of the sea, yambing around with their old pantometer, in duckasaloppics, Luke and Johnny MacDougall, and all wishening for anything at all of the bygone times, the wald times and the fald times and the hempty times and the dempty times, for a cup of kindness yet, for four farback tumblerfuls of woman squash, with them, all four, listening and spraining their ears for the millennium and all their mouths making water.

Johnny.

Ah well, sure, that’s the way (up) and it so happened there was poor Matt Gregory (up), their paterfamilias, and (up) the others and now really and (up) truly they were four dear old heladies and really they looked awfully pretty and so nice and bespectable with their grey half a tall hat and tailormade frock coat and after that they had their fathomglasses to find out all the fathoms and their half a tall hat, just now like the old Merquus of Pawerschoof, the determined old despot (quiescents in brage!

), only for the extrusion of the saltwater or the auctioneer there dormont, in front of the place near O’Clery’s, at the darkumound numbur wan, beside that ancient Dame street, where the statue of Mrs Dana O’Connell, prostituent behind the Trinity College, that arranges all the auctions of the valuable colleges, Bootersbay Sisters, like the auctioneer Battersby Sisters, the prumisceous creaters, that sells all the emancipated statues and flower-sports, James H. Tickell, the jaypee, off Hoggin Green, after he made the centuries, going to the tailturn horseshow, before the angler nomads flood, along with another fellow, active impalsive, and the shoeblacks and the redshanks and plebeians and the barrancos and the cappunchers childerun, Jules, Franz, Xavies and Polidors, everyone, Gotopoxy, with the houghers on them, highstepping the fissure and fracture lines, seven five threes up, three five sevens down, to get out of his way, onasmuck as their withers conditions could not possibly have been improved upon (praisers be to deeseesee!

), like hopolopocattls erumping oround their Fudgity Yaman, and all the tercentenary horses and priesthunters, from the Curragh, and confusionaries and the authorities, Noord Amrikaans and Suid Aferican cattle-raiders (so they say) all over like a tiara dullfuoco, in his grey half a tall hat and his amber necklace and his crimson harness and his leathern jib and his cheapskein hairshirt and his scotobrit sash and his parapelagian gallow-glasses (how do you do, jaypee?

Elevato!

), forkbearded and bluetoothed and bellied and boneless, from Strathlyffe and Aylesbury and Northumberland Anglesey, to find out all the improper colleges (and how do you do, Mr Dame James?

Get out of my way!

), especially he being amphotically the right man in the right place, the whole yaghoodurt sweepstakings and all the horsepowers.

But now, talking of hayastdanars and wolkingology and how our seaborn isle came into exestuance (the explutor, his three ande-siters and the two pantellarias), that reminds me about the manausteriums of the poor Marcus of Lyons and poor Johnny, the patrician, and what do you think of the four of us and there they were now, listening right enough, the four saltwater widowers, and all they could remembore, long long ago in the olden times Momonian, throw darker hour sorrows, the princest day, when Fair Margrate waited Swede Villem, and Lally in the rain, with the blank prints, now extincts, after the wreak of Wormans’ Noe, why the barmaisigheds, when my heart knew no care, and after that then there was the official landing of Lady Jales Casemate, in the year of the flood 1132 S.O.S., and the christening of Queen Baltersby, the Fourth Buzzersbee, according to Her Grace the bishop, alderwoman J. P. Biskop, Senior, off the whate shape, and then there was the drowning of Pharoah and all his pedestrians and they were all completely drowned into the sea, the red sea, and then poor Merkin Cornyngwham, the official out of the castle on pension, when he was completely drowned off the Erin Isles at that time, Suir knows, in the red sea and a lovely mourning paper and thank God, as Saman said, there were no more of him.

And that now was how it was.

The arzurian deeps o’er his humbodumbones sweeps.

And his widdy the giddy is wreathing her murmoirs as her gracest triput to the Grocery Trader’s Manthly.

Mind mand gunfree by Gladeys Rayburn!

Runtable’s Reincorporated.

The new world presses.

Where the old conk cruised now croons the yunk.

Exeonc throw a darras Kram of Llawnroc, ye gink guy, kirked into yord.

Enterest attawonder Wehpen, luftcat revol, fairescapading in his natsirt.

Tuesy tumbles.

And mild aunt Liza is as loose as her neese.

Fulfest withim inbrace behent.

As gent would deem oncontinent.

So mulct per wenche is Elsker woed.

Ne hath his thrysting.

Fin.

Like the newcasters in their old plyable of A Royenne Devows.

Jazzaphoney and Mirillovis and Nippy she nets best.

Fing.

Ay, ay!

Sobbos.

And so he was.

Sabbus.

Marcus.

And after that, not forgetting, there was the Flemish armada, all scattered, and all officially drowned, there and then, on a lovely morning, after the universal flood, at about eleven thirtytwo (was it?)

off the coast of Cominghome and Saint Patrick, the anabaptist, and Saint Kevin, the lacustrian, with toomuch of tolls and lottance of beggars, after converting Porterscout and Dona, our first marents, and Lapoleon, the equestrian, on his whuite hourse of Hunover, rising Clunkthurf over Cabinhogan, and all they remembored and then there was the Frankish floot of Noahsdovahs, from Hedalgoland, round about the freebutter year of Notre Dame 1132 P.P.C.

or so, disumbunking from under Motham-general Bonaboche (noo poopery!)

in his half a grey traditional hat, alevoila come alevilla, and after that there he was, so terrestrial, like a Nailscissos, cuddling and poghuing her scandalous and very wrong, the maid, in single combat, under the sycamores, amid the bladderings from the boom, and all the gallowsbirds in Arrah-na-poghue, so silvestrious, neer the Queen’s Colleges, in 1132 Brian or Bride street, behind the century man on the door.

And then again they used to give the grandest gloriaspanquost universal howldmoutherhibbert lectures on anarxaquy out of doxarchology (hello, Hibernia!)

from sea to sea (Matt speaking!)

according to the pictures postcard, with sexon grimmacticals, in the Latimer Roman history, of Latimer repeating himself, from the vicerine of Lord Hugh, the Lacytynant, till Bockley shuts the rahjahn gerachknell and regnumrockery roundup (Marcus Lyons speaking!)

to the oceanfuls of collegians green and high classes and the poor scholars and all the old trinitarian senate and saints and sages and the Plymouth brethren, droning along, peanzanzangan, and nodding and sleeping away there, like forgetmenots, in her abijance service, round their twelve tables, per pioja at pulga bollas, in the four trinity colleges, for earnasyoulearning in Eringrowback, of Ulcer, Moonster, Leanstare and Cannought, the four grandest colleges supper the matther of Erryn, of Killorcure and Killthemall and Killeachother and Killkelly-on-the-Flure, where their role was to rule the round roll that Rollo and Rullo rolled round.

Those were the grandest gynecollege histories (Lucas calling, hold the line!)

in the Janesdanes Lady Andersdaughter Universary, for auld acquaintance sake (this unitarian lady, breathtaking beauty, Bambam’s bonniest, lived to a great age at or in or about the late No.

1132 or No.

1169, bis, Fitzmary Round, that eredwellers’ afterliving, where she was seen by many and widely liked) for teaching the Fatima Woman history of Fatimiliafamilias, repeating herself, on which purposeth of the spirit of nature as divinely developed in time by psadatepholomy, the past and present (Johnny MacDougall speaking, give me trunks, miss!)

and present and absent and past and present and perfect arma virumque romano.

Ah, dearo dear!

O weep for the hower when eve aleaves bower!

How it did but all come eddaying back to them, if they did but get gaze, gagagniagnian, to hear him there, kissing her and cuddling her, after the gouty old galahat, with his peer of quinnyfears and his troad of thirstuns, so nefarious, from his elevation of one yard one handard and thartytwo lines, before the four of us, in his Roman Catholic arms, while his deepseepeepers gazed and sazed and dazecrazemazed into her dullokbloon rodolling olosheen eyenbowls by the Cornelius Nepos.

Mnepos.

Anumque.

Umque.

Napoo.

Queh?

Quos?

Ah, dearo dearo dear!

Bozun braceth brythe hwen gooses gandered gamen.

Mahazar ag Dod!

It was so scalding sorry for all the whole twice two four of us, with their familiar, making the totem, and Lally when he lost part of his half a hat and all belongings to him, in his old futile manner, cape, towel and drawbreeches, and repeating himself and telling him now, for the seek of Senders Newslaters and the mossacre of Saint Brices, to forget the past, when the burglar he shoved the wretch in churneroil, and contradicting all about Lally, the ballest master of Goaterstown, and his old fellow, the Lagener, in the Locklane Lighthouse, earing his wick with a pierce of railing, and liggen hig with his ladder up, and that oldtime turner and his sadderday erely cloudsing, the old croniony, Skelly, with the lether belly, full of neltts, full of keltts, full of lightweight beltts, and all the bald drakes or ever he had up in the bohereen, off Artsichekes Road, with Molls and Mahmullagh Mullarty, the man in the Oran mosque, and the old folks at home and Duignam and Lapole and the grand confarreation, as per the cabbangers richestore, of the filest archives, and he couldn’t stop laughing over Tom Tim Tarpey, the Welshman, and the four middleaged widowers, all nangles, sangles, angles and wangles.

And now, that reminds me, not to forget the four of the Welsh waves, leaping laughing, in their Lumbag Walk, over old Battleshore and Deaddleconche, in their half a Roman hat, with an ancient Greek gloss on it, in Chichester College auction and, thank God, they were all summarily divorced, four years before, or so they say, by their dear poor shehusbands, in dear byword days, and never brought to mind, to see no more the rainwater on the floor but still they parted, raining water laughing, per Nupiter Privius, only terpary, on the best of terms and be forgot, whilk was plainly foretolk by their old pilgrim cocklesong or they were singing through the wettest indies As I was going to Burrymecarott we fell in with a lout by the name of Peebles as also in another place by their orthodox proverb so there was said thus That old fellow knows milk though he’s not used to it latterly.

And so they parted.

In Dalkymont nember to.

Ay, ay.

The good go and the wicked is left over.

As evil flaws so Ivel flows.

Ay, ay.

Ah, well, sure that’s the way.

As the holymaid of Kunut said to the haryman of Koombe.

For his humple pesition in odvices.

Woman.

Squash.

Part.

Ay, ay.

By decree absolute.

Lucas.

And, O, so well they could remembore at that time, when Carpery of the Goold Fins was in the kingship of Poolland, Mrs Dowager Justice Squelchman, foorsitter, in her fullbottom wig and beard (Erminia Reginia!

