His real devotes.

Wriggling reptiles, take notice!

Whereas we exgust all such sprinkling snigs.

They are pestituting the whole time neverwithstanding we simply agree upon the committee of amusance!

Or would bring above under same notice for it to be able to be seen.

About that coerogenal hun and his knowing the size of an eggcup.

First he was a skulksman at one time and then Cloon’s fired him through guff.

Be sage about sausages!

Stuttutistics shows with he’s heacups of teatables the old firm’s fatspitters are most eatenly appreciated by metropolonians.

While we should like to drag attentions to our Wolkmans Cumsensation Act.

The magnets of our midst being foisted upon by a plethorace of parachutes.

Did speece permit the bad example of setting before the military to the best of our belief in the earliest wish of the one in mind was the mitigation of the king’s evils.

And how he staired up the step after it’s the power of the gait.

His giantstand of manunknown.

No brad wishy washy wathy wanted neither!

Once you are balladproof you are unperceable to haily, icy and missilethroes.

Order now before we reach Ruggers’ Rush!

As we now must close hoping to Saint Laurans all in the best.

Moral.

Mrs Stores Humphreys: So you are expecting trouble, Pondups, from the domestic service questioned?

Mr Stores Humphreys: Just as there is a good in even, Levia, my cheek is a compleet bleenk.

Plumb.

Meaning.

One two four.

Finckers.

Up the hind hose of hizzars.

Whereupon our best again to a hundred and eleven ploose one thousand and one other blessings will now concloose thoose epoostles to your great kindest, well, for all at trouble to took.

We are all at home in old Fintona, thank Danis, for ourselfsake, that direst of housebonds, whool wheel be true unto loves end so long as we has a pockle full of brass.

Impossible to remember persons in improbable to forget position places.

Who would pellow his head off to conjure up a, well, particularly mean stinkerlike funn make called Foon MacCrawl brothers, mystery man of the pork martyrs?

Force in giddersh!

Tomothy and Lorcan, the bucket Toolers, both are Timsons now they’ve changed their characticuls during their blackout.

Conan Boyles will pudge the daylives out through him, if they are correctly informed.

Music, me ouldstrow, please!

We’ll have a brand rehearsal.

Fing!

One must simply laugh.

Fing him aging!

Good licks!

Well, this ought to wake him to make up.

He’ll want all his fury gutmurdherers to redress him.

Gilly in the gap.

The big bad old sprowly allsome uttering foon!

Has now stuffed last podding.

His fooneral will sneak pleace by creeps o’clock, toosday.

Kingen will commen.

Allso brewbeer.

Pens picture at Manshem House Horsegardens shown in Morning post as from Boston transcripped.

Femilles will be preadaminant as from twentyeight to twelve.

To hear that lovelade parson, of case, a bawl gentlemale, pour forther moracles.

Don’t forget!

The grand fooneral will now shortly occur.

Remember.

The remains must be kind of removed before eaght hours shorp.

With earnestly conceived hopes.

So help us to witness to this day to hand in sleep.

Of Mayasdaysed most duteoused.

Well, here’s lettering you erronymously anent other clerical fands allieged herewith.

I wisht I wast be that dumb tyke and he’d wish it was me yonther heel.

How about it?

The sweetest song in the world!

Our shape as a juvenile being much admired from the first with native copper locks.

Referring to the Married Woman’s Improperty Act, a correspondent paints out that the Swees Aubumn vogue is hanging down straith fitting to her innocenth eyes.

O, felicious coolpose!

If all the MacCrawls would only handle virgils like Armsworks, Limited!

That’s handsel for gertles!

Never mind Micklemash!

Chat us instead!

The cad with the pope’s wife, Lily Kinsella, who became the wife of Mr Sneakers for her good name in the hands of the kissing solicitor, will now engage in attentions.

Just a prinche for tonight!

Pale bellies our mild cure, back and streaky ninepence.

The thicks off Bully’s Acre was got up by Sully.

The Boot Lane brigade.

And she had a certain medicine brought her in a licenced victualler’s bottle.

Shame!

Thrice shame!

We are advised the waxy is at the present in the Sweeps hospital and that he may never come out!

Only look through your leatherbox one day with P.C.Q.

about 4.32 or at 8 and 22.5 with the quart of scissions masters and clerk and the bevyhum of Marie Reparatrices for a good allround sympowdhericks purge, full view, to be surprised to see under the grand piano Lily on the sofa (and a lady!)

pulling a low and then he’d begin to jump a little bit to find out what goes on when love walks in besides the solicitous bussness by kissing and looking into a mirror.

That we were treated not very grand when the police and everybody is all bowing to us when we go out in all directions on Wanterlond Road with my cubarola glide?

And, personably speaking, they can make their beaux to my alce, as Hillary Allen sang to the opennine knighters.

Item, we never were chained to a chair, and, bitem, no widower whithersoever followed us about with a fork on Yankskilling Day.

Meet a great civilian (proud lives to him!)

who is as gentle as a mushroom and a very attractable when he always sits forenenst us for his wet; while to all whom it may concern Sully is a thug from all he drunk, though he is a rattling fine bootmaker in his profession.

Would we were herewith to lodge our complaint on Sergeant Laraseny in consequence of which in such steps taken his health would be constably broken into potter’s pance which would be the change of his life by a Nollwelshian which has been oxbelled out of crispianity.

Well, our talks are coming to be resumed by more polite conversation with a huntered persent human over the natural bestness of pleisure after his good few mugs of humbedumb and shag.

While for whoever likes that urogynal pan of cakes one apiece it is thanks, beloved, to Adam, our former first Finnlatter and our grocerest churcher, as per Grippith’s varuations, for his beautiful crossmess parzel.

Well, we simply like their demb cheeks, the Rathgarries, wagging here about around the rhythlms in me amphybed and he being as bothered that he pausably could by the fallth of hampty damp.

Certified reformed peoples, we may add to this stage, are proptably saying to quite agreeable deef.

Here gives your answer, pigs and scuts!

Hence we’ve lived in two worlds.

He is another he what stays under the himp of holth.

The herewaker of our hamefame is his real namesame who will get himself up and erect, confident and heroic when but, young as of old, for my daily comfreshenall, a wee one woos.

Alma Luvia, Pollabella.

Ps!

Soldier Rollo’s sweetheart.

And she’s about fetted up now with nonsery reams.

And rigs out in regal rooms with the ritzies.

Rags!

Worns out.

But she’s still her deckhuman amber too.

Soft morning, city!

Lsp!

I am Leafy speafing.

Lfp!

Folty and folty all the nights have being falling on to long my hair.

Not a sound, falling.

Lispn!

No wind, no word.

Only a leaf, just a leaf and then leaves.

The woods are fond always.

As were wee their babes in.

And robins in crews so.

It is for me goolden wending.

Unless?

Away!

Rise up, man of the hooths, you have slept so long!

Or is it only so mesleems?

On your pondered palm.

Reclined from cape to pede.

With pipe on bowl.

Terce for a fiddler, sixt for makmerriers, none for a Cole.

Rise up now!

And aruse!

Norvena’s over.

I am Leafy, your goolden, so you called me, may me life, yea your goolden, silve me solve, exsogerraider!

You did so drool.

I was so sharm.

But there’s a great poet in you too.

Stout Stokes would take you offly.

So has he as bored me to slump.

But am good and rested.

Taks to you, toddy, tan ye!

Yawhawaw.

Helpunto min, helpas vin.

Here is your shirt, the day one, come back.

The stock, your collar.

Also your double brogues.

A comforter as well.

And here your iverol and everthelest your umbr.

And stand up tall.

Straight.

I want to see you looking fine for me.

With your brandnew big green belt and all.

Blooming in the very lotust and second to nill, Budd!

When you’re in the buckly shuit Rosensharonals near did for you.

Fiftyseven and three, cosh, with the bulge.

Proudpurse Alby with his pooraroon Eireen, they’ll.

Pride, comfytousness, enevy!

You make me think of a wonderdecker I once.

Or somebalt thet sailder, the man megallant with the bangled ears.

Or an earl was he, at Lucan?

Or, no, it’s the Iren duke’s I mean.

Or sombrey erse from the Dark Countries.

Come and let us!

We always said we’d.

And go abroad.

Rathgreany way perhaps.

The childher are still fast.

There is no school today.

Them boys is so contrairy.

The Head does be worrying himself.

Heel trouble and heal travel.

Galliver and Gellover.

Unless they changes by mistake.

I seen the likes in the twinngling of an aye.

Som.

So oft.

Sim.

Time after time.

The sehm asnuh.

Two bredder as doffered as nors in soun.

When one of him sighs or one of him cries ’tis you all over.

No peace at all.

Maybe it’s those two old crony aunts held them out to the water front.

Queer Mrs Quickenough and odd Miss Doddpebble.

And when them two has had a good few there isn’t much more dirty clothes to publish.

From the Laundersdale Minssions.

One chap googling the holyboy’s thingabib and this lad wetting his widdle.

You were pleased as Punch, recitating war exploits and pearse orations to them jackeen gapers.

But that night after, all you were wanton!

Bidding me do this and that and the other.

And blowing off to me, hugly Judsys, what wouldn’t you give to have a girl!

Your wish was mewill.

And, lo, out of a sky!

The way I too.

But her, you wait.

Eager to choose is left to her shade.

If she had only more matcher’s wit.

Findlings makes runaways, runaways a stray.

She’s as merry as the gricks still.

’Twould be sore should leaden sorrow.

I’ll wait and I’ll wait.

And then if all goes.

What will be is.

Is is.

But let them.

Slops hospodch and the slusky slut too.

He’s for thee what she’s for me.

