Yet clarify begins at.

Whither the spot for?

Whence the hour by?

See but!

Lever hulme!

Take in!

Respassers should be pursaccoutred.

Qui stabat Meius quantum qui stabat Peius.

As of yours.

We annew.

Our shades of minglings mengle them and help help horizons.

A flasch and, rasch, it shall come to pasch, as hearth by hearth leaps live.

For the tanderest stock with the rosinost top.

Allen Hill’s, clubpubber, in general stores and.

Blz!

Atriathroughwards, Lugh the Brathwacker will be the listened after and he larruping sparks out of his teiney ones.

The spearspid of dawnfire totouches ain the tablestoane ath the centre of the great circle of the macroliths of Helusbelus in the boshiman brush on this our peneplain by Fangaluva Bight whence the horned cairns erge, stanserstanded, to floran frohn, idols of isthmians.

Over-where.

Gaunt grey ghostly gossips growing grubber in the glow.

Past now palls.

Cur one beast, even Dane the Great, may treadspaths with sniffer he snout impursuant to byelegs.

Edar’s chuckal humuristic.

But why pit the cur afore the noxe?

Let shrill their duan Gallus, han, and she, hon, the Sassqueehenna, makes ducksruns at crooked.

Once for the chantermale, twoce for the pother and once twoce threece for the waither.

So an inedible yellowmeat turns out the invasable blackth.

Kwhat serves to rob with Alliman, saelior, a turnkeyed trot to Seapoint, pierrotettes, means Noel’s Bar and Julepunsch, by Joge, if you’ve tippertaps in your head or starting kursses, tailour, your right to Penmark, stommering silenced at Henge Ceollege, Exmooth, Ostbys for ost, boys, each and one?

Death banes and the quick quoke.

But life wends and the dombs spake!

Whake?

Hill of Hafid, knock and knock, nachasach, gives relief to the langscape as he strauches his lamusong upon gazelle channel and the bride of the Bryne, shin high shake, is dotter than evar for a damse wed her farther.

Lambel on the up!

We may plesently heal Geoglyphy’s twentynine ways to say goodbett an wassing seeoosoon liv.

With the forty wonks winking please me your much as to.

With her tup.

It’s a long long ray to Newirelands premier.

For korfs, for streamfish, for confects, for bullyoungs, for smearsassage, for patates, for steaked pig, for men, for limericks, for waterfowls, for wagsfools, for louts, for cold airs, for late trams, for curries, for curlews, for leekses, for orphalines, for tunnygulls, for clear goldways, for lungfortes, for moonyhaunts, for fairmoneys, for coffins, for tantrums, for armoires, for waglugs, for rogues’ comings, for sly goings, for larksmathes, for homdsmeethes, for quailsmeathes, kilaloolyoo.

Tep.

Come lead, crom lech!

Top.

Wisely for us Old Bruton has withdrawn his theory.

You are alpsulumply wroght!

Amsulummmm.

But this is perforeteaguing youpoorapps?

Namantanai!

Sure it’s not kevieng your?

Amslu!

Good all so.

We seem to understand apad vellumtomes muniment, Arans Duhkha, among hoseshoes, cheriotiers and etceterogenious bargain boatbarrows, ofver and umnder, since, evenif or although, in double preposition as in triple conjunction, how the mudden research in the topaia that was Mankaylands has gone to prove from the picalava present in the maramara melma that while a successive generation has been.

In the deep deep deeps of Deepereras.

Buried hearts.

Rest here.

Conk a dook he’ll doo.

Svap.

So let him slap, the sap!

Till they take down his shatter from his shap.

Hecanease.

Fill stap.

Thus faraclacks the friarbird.

Listening, Syd!

The child, a natural child, thenown by the mnames of (aya!

aya!

), wouldbewas kidnapped at an age of recent probably, possibly remoter; or he conjured himself from seight by slide at hand; for which the theatron is a lemoronage; at milchgoat fairmesse; in full dogdhis; sod on a fall; pat; the hundering blundering dunderfunder of plundersundered manhood; behold, he returns; renascenent; fincarnate; still foretold around the hearthside; at matin a fact; hailed chimers’ ersekind; foespurnant; fum in his mow; awike in wave risurging into chrest; victis poenis hesternis; fostfath of solas; fram choicest of wiles with warmen and sogns til Banba, burial aranging; under articles thirtynine of the reconstitution; by the lord’s order of the canon consecrandable; earthlost that we thought him; pesternost, the noneknown worrier; from Tumbarumba mountain; in persence of whole landslots; forebe all the rassias; sire of leery subs of dub; The Diggings, Woodenhenge, as to hang out at; with spawnish oel full his angalach; the sousenugh; gnomeosulphidosalamermanderman; the big brucer, fert in fort; Gunnar, of The Gunnings, Gund; one of the two or three forefivest fellows a bloke could in holiday crowd encounter; benedicted be the barrel; kilderkins, lids off; a roache, an oxmaster, a sort of heaps, a pamphilius, a vintivatniviceny, a hygienic contrivance so-called from the editor; the thick of your thigh; you know; quite; talking to the vicar’s joy and ruth; the gren, woid and glue been broking by the maybole gards; he; when no crane in Elga is heard; upout to speak this lay; without links, without impediments, with gygantogyres, with freeflawforms; parasama to himself; atman as evars; whom otherwise becauses; no puler as of old but as of young a paladin; whitelock not lacked nor temperasoleon; though he appears a funny colour; stoatters some; but a quite a big bug after the dahlias; place inspectorum sarchent; also the hullow chyst excavement; astronomically fabulafigured; as Jambudvispa Vipra foresaw of him; the last half-versicle repurchasing his pawned word; sorensplit and paddypatched; and pfor to pfinish our pfun of a pfan coalding the keddle mickwhite: sure, straight, slim, sturdy, serene, synthetical, swift.

By the antar of Yasas!

Ruse made him worthily achieve inherited wish.

The drops upon that mantle rained never around Fingal.

Goute!

Loughlin’s Salts.

Will make a newman if anyworn.

Soe?

La!

Lamfadar’s arm it has cocoincidences.

You mean to see we have been hadding a sound night’s sleep?

You may so.

It is just, it is just about to, it is just about to rolywholyover.

Svapnasvap.

Of all the stranger things that ever not even in the hundrund and badst pageans of unthowsent and wonst nice or in eddas and oddes bokes of tomb, dyke and hollow to be have happened!

The untireties of livesliving being the one substrance of a streamsbecoming.

Totalled in toldteld and teldtold in tittletelltattle.

Why?

Because, graced be Gad and all giddy gadgets, in whose words were the beginnings, there are two signs to turn to, the yest and the ist, the wright side and the wronged side, feeling aslip and wauking up, so an, so farth.

Why?

On the sourdsite we have the Moskiosk Djinnpalast with its twin adjacencies, the bathhouse and the bazaar, allahallahallah, and on the spontlesite it is the Alcovan and the rosegarden, boony noughty, all puraputhry.

Why?

One’s apurr apuss a story about brid and breakfedes and parricombating and coushcoush but others is of tholes and outworn buyings, dolings and chafferings in heat, contest and enmity.

Why?

Every talk has his stay, vidnis Shavarsanjivana, and all-a-dreams perhapsing under lucksloop at last are through.

Why?

It’s a sot of a swigswag, systomy dystomy, which everybody you ever anywhere at all doze.

Why?

Such me.

And howpsadrowsay.

Lok!

A shaft of shivery in the act, anilancinant.

Cold’s sleuth!

Vayuns!

Where did thots come from?

It is infinitesimally fevers, resty fever, risy fever, a coranto of aria, asleeperawakening, in the smalls of one’s back presentiment, gip, and again, geip, a flash from a future of maybe mahamayability through the windr of a wondr in a wildr is a weltr as a wirbl of a warbl is a world.

Tom.

It is perfect degrees excelsius.

A jaladaew still stilleth.

Cloud lay but mackrel are.

Anemone activescent.

The torporature is returning to mornal.

Humid nature is feeling itself freely at ease with the all fresco.

The vervain is to herald as the grass administers.

They say, they say in effect, they really say.

You have eaden fruit.

Say whuit.

You have snakked mid a fish.

Tell whish.

Every those personal place objects is nonthings wheresoevers and they just done been doing being in a dromo of todos withouten a bound to be by.

You hild them, the upples, in your trowers.

Forswundled.

You hald him by the tap of the tang.

Not a salutary sellable sound is since.

Insteed for asteer, adrift with adraft.

Nuctumbulumbumus wanderwards the Nil.

Victorias neanzas.

Alberths neantas.

It was a long, very long, a dark, very dark, an allbut unend, scarce endurable, and we could add mostly quite various and somewhat stumbletumbling night.

Endee he sendee.

Diu!

The has goning at gone, the is coming to come.

Greets to ghastern, hie to morgning.

Dormidy, destady!

Doom is the faste.

Well dawn, good other!

Now day, slow day, from delicate to divine, divases.

Padma, brighter and sweetster, this flower that bells, it is our hour of risings.

Tickle, tickle.

Lotus spray.

Till herenext.

Adya.

Take thanks, thankstum, Thamas.

In that earopean end meets Ind.

There is something supernoctual about whatever you called him it.

Panpan and vinvin are not alonely vanvan and pinpin in your Tamal without tares but simplysoley they are they.

This utter follow is that odder fellow.

Himkim kimhim.

Old yeasterloaves may be a stale as a stub and the pitcher go to aftoms on the wall.

Mildew, murk, leak and yarn now want the bad that they lied on.

And the four last words todate in camparative accoustomology are going to tell stretch of a fancy through strength towards joyance, adyatanta, where he gets up.

Allay for allay, a threat for a throat.

Tim!

To them in Ysat Loka.

Hearing.

The urb it orbs.

Then’s now with now’s then in tense continuant.

Heard.

Who having has he shall have had.

Hear!

Upon the thuds trokes truck, chim, it will be exactlyso fewer hours by so many minutes of the ope of the diurn of the sennight of the maaned of the yere of the age of the madamanvantora of Grossguy and Littleylady, our hugibus hugibum and our weewee mother, actaman housetruewith, and their childer and their napirs and their napirs’ childers’ napirs and their chattels and their servance and their cognance and their ilks and their orts and their everythings that is be will was theirs.

Much obliged, Time-o’-Thay!

But wherth, O clerk?

Whithr a clonk?

Vartman!

See you not soo the pfath they pfunded, oura vatars that arred in Himmal, harruad bathar namas, the gow, the stiar, the tigara, the liofant, when even thurst was athar vetals, mid trefoils slipped the sable rampant, hoofs hoofs hoofs hoofs, padapodopudupedding on fattafottafutt.

Ere we are!

Signifying, if tungs may tolkan, that primeval conditions having gradually receded but nevertheless the emplacement of solid and fluid having to a great extent persisted through intermittences of sullemn fulminance, sollemn nuptialism, sallemn sepulture and providential divining, making possible and even inevitable, after his a time has a tense haves and havenots hesitency, at the place and period under consideration a socially organic entity of a millenary military maritory monetary morphological circumformation in a more or less settled state of equonomic ecolube equalobe equilab equilibbrium.

Gam on, Gearge!

Nomomorphemy for me!

Lessnatbe angardsmanlake!

You jast gat a tache of army on the stumuk.

To the Angar at Anker.

Aecquotincts.

Seeworthy.

Lots thankyouful, polite pointsins!

There’s a tavarn in the tarn.

Tip.

Take Tamotimo’s topical.

Tip.

Browne yet Noland.

Tip.

Advert.

Where.

Cumulonubulocirrhonimbant heaven electing, the dart of desire has gored the heart of secret waters and the poplarest wood in the entire district is being grown at present, eminently adapted for the requirements of pacnicstricken humanity, and between all the goings up and the whole of the comings down, and the fog of the cloud in which we toil and the cloud of the fog under which we labour, bomb the thing’s to be domb about it so that, beyond indicating the locality, it is felt that one cannot with advantage add a very great deal to the aforegoing by what, such as it is to be, follows, just mentioning however that the old man of the sea and the old woman in the sky if they don’t say nothings about it they don’t tell us no lie, the ghist of the phantomime, from cannibal king to the property horse, being, slumply and slopely, to remind us how, in this drury world of ours, Father Times and Mother Spacies boil their kettle with their crutch.

Which every lad and lass in the lane knows.

Hence.

Polycarp pool, the pool of Innalavia, Saras the saft as, of meadewy marge, atween Deltas Piscium and Sagittariastrion, whereinn once we lave ’tis alve and vale, minnyhahing here from hiarwather, a poddlebridges in a passabed, the river of lives, the regenerations of the incarnations of the emanations of the apparentations of Funn and Nin in Cleethabala, the kongdomain of the Alieni, an accorsaired race, infester of Libnud Ocean, Moylamore, let it be!

Where Allbroggt Neandser tracking Vikkynette Neeinsee gladsighted her Linfian Falls and a teamdiggingharrow turned the first sod.

Sluce!

Caughterect!

Goodspeed the blow!

(Incidentally, ’tis believed that his harpened before Gage’s Fane for it has to be over this booty spotch, though some hours to the wester, that ex-Colonel House’s preterpost heiress is to return into the outstretcheds of Dweyer O’Michael’s loinsprung the blunterbusted pikehead which his had hewn in hers.

Prolonged laughterwords.)

There an alomdree begins to green, screen seen for loveseat, as we know that should she, for by essentience his law, so it make all.

It is scainted to Vitalba.

And her little white bloomkins, twittersky trimmed, are hobdoblins’ hankypanks.

Saxens like our anscessers thought so darely on now they’re going soever to Anglesea, free of juties, dyrt chapes.

There too a slab slobs, immermemorial, the only in all swamp.

But so bare, so boulder, brag sagging such a brr bll bmm show that, wooly smools of Barindeus, the white alfred, it owed to have at leased some butchup’s upperon.

Homos Circas Elochlannensis!

His showplace at Leeambye.

Old Wommany Wyes.

Pfif!

But, while gleam with gloom swan here and there, this shame rock and that whispy planter tell Paudheen Steel-the-Poghue and his perty Molly Vardant, in goodbroomirish, arrah, this place is a proper and this feist a ferial if so be hwo hwo would celibrate cardnal communial, the holy mystery, or that the pirigrim from Mainylands beatend, the calmleaved hutcaged by that look whose glaum is sure he means bisnisgels to empalmover.

A naked yogpriest, clothed upon of sundust, his oakey doaked with frondest leoves, offrand to the ewon of her owen.

Tasyam kuru salilakriyam!

Pfaf!

