
As to his religion, if any?

It was the see-you-Sunday sort.

Exactly what he, Sour Harry, meant by a pederast prig?

Bejacob’s goat, just a gent who prayed his lent.

And if this middleclassed portavorous was a useful beast?

Bynight as useful as a vomit to a shorn man.

If he had ragnarised dtheir gcourts marsheyls?

Dthat nday in ndays he had.

Lindendelly, coke or skillies, spell me gart without a gate?

Harlyadrope.

The grazing rights (Mrs Magistra Martinette) expired with the expiry of the goat’s sire, if they were not mistaken?

That he exactly could not tell the worshipfuls but his mother-in-waders had the recipis for the price of the coffin and that he was there to tell them that herself was the velocipede that could tell them kitcat.

A maundarin tongue in a pounderin jowl?

Father ourder about the mathers of prenanciation.

Distributary endings?

And we recommends.

Quare hircum?

No answer.

Unde gentium fe …?

No ah.

Are you not danzzling on the age of a vulcano?

Siar, I am deed.

And how olld of him?

He was intendant to study pulu.

Which was meant in a shirt of two shifts macoghamade or up Finn’s threehatted ladder?

That a head in thighs under a bush at the sunface would bait a serpent to a millrace through the heather.

Arm bird colour defdum ethnic fort perhaps?

Sure and glomsk handy jotalpheson as well.

Hokey jasons, then, in a pigeegeeses?

On a pontiff’s order as ture as there’s an ital on atac.

As a gololy bit to joss?

Leally and tululy.

But why this hankowchaff and whence this second tone, son-yet-sun?

He had the cowtaw in his buxers, flay of face.

So this that Solasistras, setting odds evens at defiance, took the laud from Labouriter?

What displaced Tob, Dilke and Halley, not been greatly in love with the game.

And, changing the venders from the king’s head to the republican’s arms, as to the pugnaxities evinxed from flagfall to antepost during the effrays round fatherthyme’s beckside and the regents in the plantsown raining, with the skiddystars and the morkernwindup, how they appealed to him then?

That it was wildfires night on all the bettygallaghers, Mickmichael’s soords shrieking shrecks through the wilkinses and Neckanicholas’ toastingforks pricking prongs up the tunnybladders.

Let there be fight?

And there was.

Foght.

On the site of the Angel’s, you said?

Guiney’s Gap, he said, between what they said and the pussykitties.

In the middle of the garth, then?

That they mustn’t touch it.

The devoted couple was or were only two disappainted solicitresses on the job of the unfortunate class on Saturn’s mountain fort?

That was about it, jah!

And Camellus then said to Gemellus: I should know you?

Parfaitly.

And Gemellus then said to Camellus: Yes, your brother?

Obsolutely.

And if it was all about that, egregious sir?

About that and the other.

If he was not alluding to the whole in the wall?

That he was when he was not eluding from the whole of the woman.

Briefly, how such beginall finally struck him now?

Like the crack that bruck the benk in Multifarnham.

Whether he fell in with what they meant?

That he suppoxed he did.

Thos Thoris, Thomar’s Thom?

The rudacist rotter in Roebuckdom.

Surtopical?

And subhuman.

If it was, in yappanoise language, ach bad clap?

Oo!

Caught offal mist?

Shocking!

Bladyughfoulmoecklenburgwhurawhorascortastrumpapornanennykocksapastippatappatupperstrippuckputtanach, eh?

Ah!

Such as turly pearced our really’s?

That he might, that he might never, that he might never that night, treely and rurally!

Augs and ohrs with Rhian O’Kehley, to put it tertianly, we wrong?

You have it alright.

Meirdreach an Oincuish!

But a new complexion was put upon the matter when to the perplexedly uncondemnatory bench (whereon punic judgeship strove with penal law) the senior king of all, Pegger Festy, as soon as the outer layer of stuccko-muck had been removed at the request of a few live jurors, declared in a loudburst of poesy through his Brythonic interpreter on his oath, mhuith peisth mhuiseas fearra bheura muirre hriosmas, whereas take notice be the relics of the bones of the storybouchal that was ate be Cliopatrick (the sow) princess of parked porkers, afore God and all their honours and king’s commons that, what he would swear to the Tierney of Dundalgan or any other Tierney, yif live thurkells folloged him about sure that was no steal and that, nevertheless what was deposited from that eyebold earbig noseknaving gutthroat, he did not fire a stone either before or after he was born down and up to that time.

And, incidentalising that they might talk about Markarthy or they might walk to Baalastartey or they might join the nabour party and come on to Porterfeud, this the sockdologer had the neck to endorse with the head bowed on him over his outturned noreaster by protesting to his lipreaders with a justbeencleaned barefacedness, abeam of moonlight’s hope, in the same trelawney what he would impart, pleas bench, to the Llwyd Josas and the gentlemen in Jury’s and the four of Masterers, who had been all those yarns yearning for that good one about why he left Dublin, that, amreeta beaker coddling doom, as an Inishman was as goods as any cantonnatal, if he was to parish by the market steak befare the dorming of the mawn he skuld never ask to see sight or light of this world or the other world or any either world of Tyre-nan-Og, as true as he was there in that jackabox that minute, or wield or wind (no thanks t’yous!)

the inexousthausthible wassailhorn of iskybaush tot the hailth up the wailth of the endknown abgod of the fire of the moving way of the hawks with our hairoes in Warhorror, if ever in all his exchequered career he up or lave a chancery hand to take or throw the sign of a mortal stick or stone at man, yoelamb or salvation army either before or after being puptised down to that most holy and ever blessed hour.

Awham.

Here, upon the halfkneed castleknocker’s attempting kithoguishly (in his excitement the laddo had broken exthro Castilian into which the whole audience perseguired and pursuited him olla podrida) to lilt his holymess the paws and make the sign of the Roman Godhelic faix (xaroshie, zdrst!

), outbroke much yellachters from the owners in the heall (Ha!)

in which, under the mollification of methaglin, the testifighter reluctingly, but with ever so ladylike indecorum, joined.

(Ha!

Ha!)

The hilariohoot of Pegger’s Windup cumjostled as neatly with the tristitone of the Wet Pinter’s as were they, isce et ille, equals of opposites, evolved by a onesame power of nature or of spirit, iste, as the sole condition and means of its himundher manifestation and polarised for reunion by the symphysis of their antipathies.

Distinctly different were their duadestinies.

Whereas the maidies of the bar (a pairless trentene, a lunarised score), when the eranthus myrrmyrred Show’m the Posed, fluttered and flattered around the willingly pressed, nominating him for the swiney prize, complimenting him, the captivating youth, on his having all his senses about him, stincking thyacinths through his curls (O feen!

O deur!)

and bringing busses to his cheeks, their masculine Oirisher Rose (his neece cleur!

), and legando round his nice new neck for him and pizzicagnoling his woolly-wags, with their dindy dandy sugar de candy, couriermechree me postheen flown, to believe them of all his untiring young dames and send them treats in their times, Ymen, it was not unobserved of those presents, their worships, how, of one among all, her deputised to defeme him by the Lunar Sisters’ Celibacy Club, a lovelooking leapgirl, all all alonely, Gemma Gentia of the Makegiddyculling Reeks, he, wan and pale in his unmixed admiration, seemed blindly, mutely, tastelessly, tactlessly innamorate, with heruponhim in shining aminglement, the shaym of his hisn shifting into the shimmering of her hers (youthsy, beautsy, hee’s her chap and shey’ll tell memmas when she gays whom) till the wild wishwish of her sheeshea melted moist musically mid the dark deepdeep of his shayshaun.

And whereas distracted (for was not just this in effect which had just caused that the effect of that which it had caused to occur?)

the four justicers laid their wigs together, Untius, Muncius, Punchus and Pylax, but could do no worse than promulgate their standing verdict of Nolans Brumans whereonafter King, having murdered all the English he knew, picked out his pockets and left the tribunal scotfree, trailing his Tommeylommey’s tunic in his hurry, thereinunder proudly showing off the blink pitch to his britgits to prove himself (an’t plase yous!)

a rael genteel.

To the Switz bobbyguard’s curial but courtlike: Commodore valley O hairy, Arthre jennyrosy?, the firewaterloover returted with such a vinesmelling fortytudor ages rawdownhams tanyouhide as would turn the latten stomach even of a tumass equinous (we were prepared for the chap’s clap cap, the accent, but, took us as, by, surprise and now we’re geshing it like gush gash from a burner!)

so that all the twofromthirty advocatesses within echo, pulling up their briefs at the krigkry Shun the Punman!, safely and soundly soccered that fenemine Parish Poser (how dare he!)

umprumptu rightoway hames, much to his thanks, gratiasagam, to all the wrong donatrices (for like your true venuson Esau he was dovetimid as the dears at Bottome), to biss Drinkbottle’s Dingy Dwellings (toegang) where he shat in (zoo) like the muddy goalbird who he was (dun), the chassetitties belles conclaiming: You and your gift of your gaft of your garbage abaht our Farvver!

and gaingridando: Hon!

Verg!

Nau!

Putor!

Skam!

Schams!

Shames!

And so it all ended.

Artha kama dharma moksa.

Ask Kavya for the kay.

And so everybody heard their plaint and all listened to their plause.

The letter!

The litter!

And the soother the bitther!

Of eyebrow pencilled, by lip-stipple penned.

Borrowing a word and begging the question and stealing tinder and slipping like soap.

From dark Rosa Lane a sigh and a weep, from Lesbia Looshe the beam in her eye, from lone Coogan Barry his arrow of song, from Sean Kelly’s anagrim a blush at the name, from I am the Sullivan that trumpeting tramp, from Suffering Dufferin the sit of her style, from Kathleen May Vernon her mebbe fair efforts, from Fillthepot Curran his scotchlove machreether, from hymn Op 2 Phil Adolphos the weary O, the leery, O, from Samyouwill Leaver or Damyouwell Lover that jolly old molly bit or that bored saunter by, from Timm Finn again’s weak, tribes, loss of strength to his sowheel, from the wedding on the greene, agirlies, the gretnass of joyboys, from Pat Mullen, Tom Mallon, Dan Meldon, Don Maldon a slickstick picnic made in Moate by Muldoons.

The solid man saved by his sillied woman.

Crackajolking away like a hearse on fire.

The elm that whimpers at the top told the stone that moans when stricken.

Wind broke it.

Wave bore it.

Reed wrote of it.

Syce ran with it.

Hand tore it and wild went war.

Hen trieved it and plight pledged peace.

It was folded with cunning, sealed with crime, uptied by a harlot, undone by a child.

It was life but was it fair?

It was free but was it art?

The old hunks on the hill read it to perlection.

It made ma make merry and sissy so shy and rubbed some shine off Shem and put some shame into Shaun.

Yet Una and Ita spell famine with drought and Agrippa, the propastored, spills tripulations in his threne.

Ah, furchte fruchte, timid Danaides!

Ena milo melomou, frai is frau and swee is too, swee is two when swoo is free, ana mala woe is we!

A pair of sycopanties with amygdaleine eyes, one old obster lumpky pumpkin and three meddlars on their slies.

And that was how, framm sin fromm son, acity arose, finfin funfun, asitting arows.

Now tell me, tell me, tell me then!

What was it?

A..….!

?..… O!

So there you are now there they were, when all was over again, the four with them, setting around upin their judges’ chambers, in the muniment room of their marshalsea, under the auspices of Lally, around their old traditional tables of the law like somany solans to talk it over allthesameagain.

Well and druly dry.

Suffering law the dring.

Accourting to king’s evelyns.

So help her goat and kiss the bouc.

Festives and highajinks and jintyaun and her beetyrossy bettydoaty and not to forget now a’duna o’darnel.

The four of them and thank court now there were no more of them.

So pass the push, for port’ sake.

Be it soon.

Ah ho!

And do you remember Singabob, the bad-father, the same, the great Howdoyoucallem, and his old nickname, Dirty Daddy Pantaloons, in his monopoleums, behind the war of the two roses, with Michael Victory, the sheemen’s preester, before he caught his paper dispillsation from the poke, old Minace and Minster York?

Do I mind?

I mind the gush off the mon like Ballybock manure works on a tradewinds day.

And the O’Moyly gracies and the O’Briny rossies chassing him bluchface and playing him pranks.

How do you do todo, North Mister?

Get into my way!

Ah dearome forsailorshe!

Gone over the bays!

When ginabawdy meadabawdy!

Yerra, why would she heed that old gasometer with his hooping coppin and his dyinboosycough and all the birds of the southside after her, Minxy Cunningham, their dear divorcee darling, jimmies and jonnies, to be her jo?

Hold hard.

There’s three other corners to our isle’s cork float.

Sure, ’tis well I can telesmell him, H2CE3 that would take a township’s breath away!

Gob and I nose him too as well as I do meself, heaving up the Kay Wall by the 32 to 11 with his limelooking horsebags full of sesameseed, the Whiteside Kaffir, and his sayman’s effluvium and his scentpainted voice, puffing out his thundering big brown cabbage!

Pa!

Thawt I’m glad a gull for his pawsdeen fiunn!

Goborro, sez he, Lankyshies!

Gobugga ye, sez I, O breezes!

I sniffed that lad long before anyone.

It was when I was in my farfather out at the west and she and myself, the redheaded girl, firstnighters down Sycomore Lane.

Fine feelplay we had of it mid the kissabetts frisking in the kool kurkle dusk of the lushiness.

My perfume of the pampas, says she (meaning me), putting out her netherlights, I’d sooner one precious sip at your pure mountain dew than enrich my acquaintance with that big brewer’s belch.

And now a drink is shorter than a story.

And so they went on, the four-bottle men, the analists, unquam and nunquam and lunquam again, their anschluss, about her whosebefore and his wheresafter and how she was lost away away in the fern and how he was founded deap on deep in anear and the rustlings and the twitterings and the raspings and the snappings and the sighings and the pantings and the ukukukings and the (hist!)

the springapartings and the (hast!)

the bybyscuttlings and all the scandalmunkers and the pure craigs that used to be (up) that time living and lying and rating and riding round Nunsbelly Square.

And all the buds in the bush.

And the laughing jackass.

Harik!

Harik!

Harik!

The rose is white in the darik!

And sunfella’s nose has got rhinoceritis from haunting the roes in the parik!

So all rogues lean to rhyme.

And contradrinking themselves about Lillytrilly law pon hilly and Mrs Niall of the Nine Corsages and the old markiss, their besterfar, and, arrah, sure there was never a marcus at all at all among the manlies, and dear sir armoury, queer sir rumoury, and the old house by the churpelizod and all the goings on so very wrong long before when they were going on retreat in the old gammeldags, the four of them, in Milton’s Park under lovely Father Whisperer and making her love with his stuffstuff in the languish of flowers and feeling to find was she mushymushy, and wasn’t that very both of them, the saucicissters, a drahereen o machree!, and (peep!)

meeting waters most improper (peepette!)

ballround the garden, trickle trickle trickle triss, please, miman, may I go flirting?

farmer’s gone with a groom, how they used her, mused her, licksed her and cuddled.

I differ with ye!

Are you sure of yourself now?

You’re a liar, excuse me!

I will not and you’re another!

And Lully holding their breach of the peace for them.

Pool loll Lolly!

To give and to take!

And to forgo the pasht!

And all will be forgotten!

Ah ho!

It was too too bad to be falling out about her kindness pet and the shape of ooooooooourang’s time.

Well, all right, Lelly.

And shakeahand.

And schenkusmore.

For Craig sake.

Be it suck.

Well?
