
Whoses wishes is the farther to my thoughts.

But I’ll plant them a poser for their nomanclatter.

When they’re out with the daynurse doing Chaperon Mall.

Bright pigeons all over the whirrld will fly with my mistletoe message round their loveribboned necks and a crumb of my cake for each chasta dieva.

We keeps all and sundry papers.

In th’ amourlight, O my dawrling!

No, I swear to you by Fibs-burrow churchdome and Sainte Andrée’s Undershift, by all I hold secret from my world and in my underworld of nighties and naughties and in all the other wonderwearlds!

Close your, notmust look, now open, pet, your lips, pepette, like I used my sweet parted lipsabuss with Don Holohan of facetious memory taught me after the flannel dance, with the proof of love, up Smock Alley, the first night he smelled pouder and I coloured beneath my fan, pipetta mia, when you learned me the linguo to melt.

Wholoham would have ears like ours, the blackhaird!

Do you adore that, silenzioso?

Are you enjoying, this same little me, my life, my love?

Why do you like my, whispme?

Is it not divinely deluscious?

But in’t it baffoyou?

Misi, misi!

Tell me till my thrillme comes!

I will not break the seal.

I am enjoying it still, I swear I am!

Why do you prefer its in these dark nets, if why may ask, my sweetykins?

Shsh!

Longears is flying.

No, sweetissest, why would that ennoy me?

But don’t!

You want to be slap well slapped for that.

Your delighted lips, love, be careful!

Mind my duvetyne dress above all!

It’s golded silvy, the newest sextones with princess effect.

For Rutland blue’s got out of passion.

So, so, my precious!

O, I can see the cost, chara!

Don’t tell me!

Why, the boy in sheeps’ lane knows that.

If I sell whose, dears?

Was I sold here’s, tears?

You mean those conversation lozenges?

How awful!

The bold shame of me!

I wouldn’t, chickens, not for all the juliettes in the twinkly way!

I could snap them when I see them winking at me in bed.

I didn’t did so, my intended, or was going to or thinking of.

Shshsh!

Don’t start like that, you wretch!

I thought ye knew all and more, ye aucthors, to explique to ones the significat of their exsystems with your nieu nivulon lead.

It’s only another queer fish or otther in Brinbrou’s damned old trouchorous river again, Gothewishegoths bless us and spare her!

And gibos rest from the bosso!

Excuse me for swearing, love, I swear to the sorrasims on their trons of Uian I didn’t mean to, by this alpin armlet!

Did you really never in all our cantalang lives speak clothse to a girl’s before?

No!

Not even to the charmermaid?

How mawfellous!

Of course I believe you, my own dear doting liest, when you tell me.

As I’d live to, O, I’d love to!

Liss, liss!

I muss whiss!

Never that ever or I can remember dearstreaming faces, you may go through me!

Never in all my whole white light of my matchless and pair!

Or ever for bitter be the frucht of this hour!

With my whiteness I thee woo and bind my silk breasths I thee bound!

Always, Amory, amor andmore!

Till always, thou lovest!

Shshshsh!

So long as the lucksmith.

Laughs!

11.

If you met on the binge a poor acheseyeld from Ailing, when the tune of his tremble shook shimmy on shin, while his countrary raged in the weak of his wailing, like a rugilant pugilant Lyon O’Lynn; if he maundered in misliness, plaining his plight, or played fox and lice, picking and dropping hips teeth, or wringing his handcuffs for peace, the blind blighter, praying Dieuf and Domb Nostrums foh thomethinks to eath; if he weapt while he leapt and guffalled quith a quhimper, made cold blood a blue mundy and no bones without flech, taking kiss, kake or kick with a suck, sigh or simper, a diffle to larn and a dibble to lech; if the fain shinner pegged you to shave his immartial, wee skillmustered shoul with his ooh, hoodoodoo!

broking wind that to wiles woemaid sin he was partial, we don’t think, Jones, we’d care to this evening, would you?

ANSWER: No, blank ye!

So you think I have impulsivism?

Did they tell you I am one of the fortysixths?

And I suppose you heard I had a wag on my ears?

And I suppose they told you too that my roll of life is not natural?

But before proceeding to conclusively confute this begging question it would be far fitter for you (if ye dare!)

to hasitate to consult with and consequentially attempt at my disposals of the same dime-cash problem elsewhere, naturalistically, of course, from the blinkpoint of so eminent a spatialist.

From it you will here notice, Schott, upon my for the first remarking you that the sophology of Bitchson while driven as under by a purely dime-dime urge is not without his cash-cash characktericksticks, borrowed for its nonce ends from the fiery goodmother Miss Fortune (who the lost time we had the pleasure we have had our little recherché brush with, what, Schott?)

and as I further could have told you, as brisk as your D.B.C., behaviouristically pailleté with a coat of homoid icing which is in reality only a done by chance ridiculisation of the whoo-whoo and where’s hairs theorics of Winestain.

To put it all the more plumbsily, the speechform is a mere sorrogate whilst the quality and tality (I shall explex what you ought to mean by this with its proper when and where and why and how in the subsequent sentence) are alternativomentally harrogate and arrogate, as the gates may be.

Talis is a word often abused by many passims (I am working out a quantum theory about it for it is really a most tantumising state of affairs).

A pessim may frequent you to say: Have you been seeing much of Talis and Talis those times?, optimately meaning: Will you put up a three of irish?

Or a ladyeater may perhaps have casualised to you as you temptoed her à la sourdine: Of your plates, is Talis de Talis, the swordswallower, who is on at the Craterium the same Talis von Talis, the penscrusher (no funk you!

), who runs his duly mile?

Or this is a perhaps cleaner example.

At a recent postvortex piece infustigation of a determinised case of chronic spinosis an extension lecturer on The Ague who out of matter of form was terging his seesers, Dr ’s Het Ubeleeft, borrowed the question: Why’s which Suchman’s talis qualis?

To whom, as a fatter of macht, Dr Gedankje of Stoutgirth, who was wiping his whistle, toarsely retoarted: While thou beast one zoom of a whorl!

(Talis and Talis originally mean the same thing, hit it’s: Qualis.)

Professor Loewy-Brueller (though, as I shall promptly prove, his whole account of the Sennacherib as distinct from the Shalmaneser sanitational reforms and of the Mr Shekels and Dr Hydes problem in the same connection differs toto coelo from the fruit of my own investigations—though the reason I went to Jericho must remain for certain reasons a political secret especially as I shall shortly be wanted in Cavantry, I congratulate myself, for the same and other reasons—as being again hopelessly vitiated by what I have now resolved to call the dime and cash diamond fallacy) in his talked off confession which recently met with such a leonine uproar on its escape after its confinement, Why am I not born like a Gentileman and why I am now so speakable about my own eatables (Feigenbaumblatt and Father, Judapest, 5688, A.M.), wholeheartedly takes off his gabbercoat and wig, honest draughty fellow, in his public interest, to make us see how, though, as he says, “by Allswill”, the inception and the descent and the endswell of Man is temporarily wrapped in obscenity.

Looking through at these accidents with the faroscope of television (this nightlife instrument needs still some subtractional betterment in the readjustment of the more refrangible angles to the squeals of his hypothesis on the outer tin sides) I can easily believe heartily in my own most spacious immensity as my ownhouse and microbemost cosm when I am reassured by ratio that the cube of my volumes is to the surfaces of their subjects as the sphericity of these globes (I am very pressing for a parliamentary motion this term which, under my guidance, would establish the deleteriousness of decorousness in the morbidisation of the modern mandaboutwoman type) is to the feracity of Fairynelly’s vacuum.

I need not anthropologise for any obintentional (I must here correct all that school of neoitalian or paleoparisien schola of tinkers and spanglers who say I’m wrong parceqeue out of revolscian from romanitis I want to be) downtrodding on my foes, Professor Levi-Brullo F.D.

of Sexe-Weiman-Eitelnakt finds, from experiments made by hinn with his Nuremberg eggs in the one hands and the watches cauldron apan the oven, though it is astensably a case of Ket’s rebollions cooling the Popes back, because the number of squeer faiths in weakly circulation will not be appreciably augmended by the netherslogging of my cupolar clods.

What the romantic in rags pines after like all tomtompions haunting crevices for a deadbeat escapement and what he importunes our Mitleid for in accornish with the Mortadarthella taradition is the poorest commononguardiant waste of time.

His everpresent toes are always in retaliessian out through his overpast boots.

Hear him squeak!

Teek heet to that looswallawer how he bolo the bat!

Tyro a toray!

When Mullocky won the couple of colds, when we were stripping in number three, I would like the neat drop that would malt in my mouth but I fail to see when.

(I am purposely refraining from expounding the obvious fallacy as to the specific gravitates of the two deglutables implied nor to the lapses lequor asousiated with the royal gorge, though students of mixed hydrostatics and pneumodipsics will after some diffculties grapple away with my meinungs.)

Myrrdin aloer!

as old Marsellas Cambriannus puts his.

But, on Professor Llewellys ap Bryllars F.D.

Ph.Dr’s showings, the plea, if he pleads, is all posh and rabbage on a melodeontic scale since his man’s when is no otherman’s quandom (mine, dank you!)

while (for aught I care for the contrary?)

the all is where in love as war and the plane where me arts soar you’d aisy rouse a thunder from and where I cling true ’tis there I climb tree and where Innocent looks best (pick!)

there’s holly in his ives.

As my explanations here are probably above your understandings, lattle-brattons, though as augmentatively uncomparisoned as Cadwan, Cad-wallon and Cadwalloner, I shall revert to a more expletive method which I frequently use when I have to sermo with muddlecrass pupils.

Imagine for my purpose that you are a squad of urchins, sniffynosed, goslingnecked, clottyheaded, tangled in your lacings, tingled in your pants, etsitaraw etcicero.

And you, Bruno Nowlan, take your tongue out of your inkpot!

As none of you knows javanese I will give all my easyfree translation of the old fabulist’s parable.

Allaboy Minor, take your head out of your satchel!

Audi, Joe Peters!

Exaudi facts!

THE MOOKSE AND THE GRIPES  Gentes and laitymen, fullstoppers and semicolonials, hybreds and lubberds!

Eins within a space and a weary wide space it wast ere wohned a Mookse.

The onesomeness wast alltolonely, archunsitslike, broady oval, and a Mookse he would a walking go (My hood!

cries Antony Romeo), so one grandsumer evening, after a great morning and his good supper of gammon and spittish, having flabelled his eyes, pilleoled his nostrils, vacticanated his ears and palliumed his throat, he put on his impermeable, seized his impugnable, harped on his crown and stepped out of his immobile De Rure Albo (socolld becauld it was chalkfull of masterplasters and had borgeously letout gardens strown with cascadas, pintacostecas, horthoducts and currycombs) and set off from Ludstown a spasso to see how badness was badness in the weirdest of all pensible ways.

As he so set off with his father’s sword, his lancia spezzata, he was girded on, and with that between his legs and his tarheels, our once in only Bragspear, he clanked, to my clinking, from veetoes to threetop every inch of an immortal.

He had not walked over a pentiad of parsecs from his azylium when at the turning of the Shinshone Lanteran near Saint Bowery’s-without-his-Walls he came (secunding to the one one oneth of the propecies, Amnis Limina Permanent) upon the most unconsciously boggylooking stream he ever locked his eyes with.

Out of the colliens it took a rise by daubing itself Ninon.

It looked little and it smelt of brown and it thought in narrows and it talked showshallow.

And as it rinn it dribbled like any lively purl-it-easy: My, my, my!

Me and me!

Little down dream, don’t I love thee!

And, I declare, what was there on the yonder bank of the stream that would be a river, parched on a limb of the olum, bolt downright, but the Gripes?

And no doubt he was fit to be dried for why had he not been having the juice of his times?

His pips had been neatly all drowned on him; his polps were charging odours every older minute; he was quickly for getting the dresser’s desdaign on the flyleaf of his frons; and he was quietly for giving the bailiff’s distrain on to the bulkside of his cul de pompe.

In all his specious heavings, as he lived by Optimus Maximus, the Mookse had never seen his Dubville brooder-on-low so nigh to a pickle.

Adrian (that was the Mookse now’s assumptinome) stuccstill phiz-à-phiz to the Gripes in an accessit of aurignacian.

But Allmookse must to Moodend much as Allrouts, austereways or wastersways, in roaming run through Room.

Hic sor a stone, singularly illud, and on hoc stone Seter satt huc sate which it filled quite poposterously and by acclammitation to its fullest justotoryum and whereopum with his unfallable encyclicling upom his alloilable, diupetriark of the wouest, and the athemystsprinkled pederect he always walked with, Deusdedit, cheek by jowel with his frisherman’s blague, Bellua Triumphans, his everyway addedto wallat’s collectium, for yea longer he lieved yea broader he betaught of it, the fetter, the summe and the haul it cost, he looked the first and last micahlike laicness of Quartus the Fifth and Quintus the Sixth and Sixtus the Seventh giving allnight sitting to Lio the Faultyfindth.

— Good appetite us, Sir Mookse!

How do you do it?

cheeped the Gripes in a wherry whiggy maudelenian woice and the jackasses all within bawl laughed and brayed for his intentions for they knew their sly toad lowry now.

I am rarumominum blessed to see you, my dear mouster.

Will you not perhopes tell me everything, if you are pleased, sanity?

All about aulne and lithial and allsall allinall about awn and liseias.

Ney?

Think of it!

O miserendissimest retempter!

A Gripes!

— Rats!

bullowed the Mookse most telesphorously, the concionator, and the sissymusses and the zozzymusses in their robenhauses quailed to hear his tardeynois at all, for you cannot wake a silken nouse out of a hoarse oar.

Blast yourself and your anathomy infairioriboos!

No, hang you for an animal rurale!

I am superbly in my supremest poncif!

Abase you, baldyqueens!

Gather behind me, satraps!

Rots!

— I am till infinity obliged with you, bowed the Gripes, his whine having gone to his palpruy head.

I am still always having a wish on all my extremities.

By the watch, what is the time, pace?

Figure it!

The pining peever!

To a Mookse!

— Ask my index!

Mund my achilles!

Swell my obolum!

Woshup my nase serene!

answered the Mookse, rapidly byturning clement, urban, eugenious and celestian in the most formose of good grogory humours.

Quote awhore?

That is quite about what I came on my missions with my paladin’s intentions laudibiliter to settle with you, barbarousse.

Let thor be orlog.

Let Pauline be Irene.

Let you be Beeton.

And let me be Los Angeles.

Now measure your length!

Now estimate my capacity!

Well, sour?

Is this space of our couple of hours too dimensional for you, temporiser?

Will you give you up?

Como?

Fuert it!

Sancta Patientia!

You should have heard the voice that answered him!

Culla vosellina.

— I was just thinkling upon that, swees Mooksey, but, for all the rime on my raisins, if I cannow make my submission, I canoss give you up, the Gripes whimpered from the nethermost of his wanhope.

Ishallassoboundbewilsothoutoosezit.

My tumble, loudy bullocker, is my own.

My velicity is too fit in one stockend.

And my spetial inexshellsis the belowing things ab ove.

But I will never be abler to tell Your Honoriousness (here he near lost his limb), though my corked father was bott a pseudowaiter, whose o’cloak you ware.

Incredible?

Well, hear the inevitable!

— Your temple, sus in cribro!

Semperexcommunicambiambisumers.

Tugurios-in-Newrobe or Tukurias-in-Ashies.

Novarome, my creature, blievend bleives.

My building space in lyonine city is always to let to leonlike Men, the Mookse with immediate jurisdiction constantinently concluded.

(What a crammer for the shapewrucked Gripes!)

And I regret to proclaim that it is out of my temporal to help you from being killed by inchies (what a thrust!)

as we first met each other newwhere so airly.

(Poor little sowsieved subsquashed Gripes!

I begin to feel contemption for him!)

My side, thank decretals, is as safe as motherour’s houses, he continued, and I can seen from my holeydome what it is to be wholly sane.

Union-jok and be joined to yok!

Parysis, tu sais, crucycrooks, belongs to him who parises himself.

And there I must leave you subject for the pressing.

I can prove that against you, weight a momentum, mein goot enemy, or Cospol’s not our star.

I bet you this dozen odd.

This foluminous dozen odd.

Quas primas—but ’tis bitter to compote my knowledge’s fructos of.

Tomes.

Elevating, to give peint to his blick, his jewelled pederect to the allmysty cielung, he luckystruck blueild out a few shouldbe santillants, a cloister of starabouts over Maples, a lucciolys in Teresa street and a stopsign before Sophy Barratt’s.
