Signs are on of a mere by token that wills still to be be coming upon this there once a here was world.

As the dayeleyves unfolden them.

In the wake of the blackshape, Nattenden Sorte; whenat, hindled firth and hundled furth, the week of wakes is out and over; as a wick weak woking from ennemberable Ashias unto fierce force fuming, temtem tamtam, the Phoenican wakes.

Passing.

One.

We are passing.

Two.

From sleep we are passing.

Three.

Into the wikeawades warld from sleep we are passing.

Four.

Come, hours, be ours!

But still.

Ah dior, ah dior!

And stay!

It was allso agreenable in our sinegear clutchless, touring the no placelike no timelike absolent, mixing up pettyvaughan populose with the magnumoore genstries, lloydhaired mersscenary blookers with boydskinned pigthetailors and goochlipped gwendolenes with duffyeyed dolores, like so many unprobables in their poor suit of the improssable.

With Mata and after please with Matamaru and after please stop with Matamaruluka and after stop do please with Matamarulukajoni.

And anotherum.

Ah ess, dapple ass!

He will be longing after the Grogram Grays.

And, Weisingchetaoli, he will levellant ministel Trampleasure be.

Sheflower Rosina, younger Sheflower fruit Amaryllis, youngest flower-fruityfrond Sallysill or Sillysall.

And house with heaven roof occupanters they are continuatingly attraverse of its milletestudinous windoors, ricocoursing themselves, as staneglass on stonegloss, in playn unglish Wynn’s Hotel.

Brancherds at: Bullbeck, Oldboof, Sassondale, Jorsey, Uppygard, Mundelonde, Abbeytotte, Bracqueytuitte with Hockeyvilla, Fockeyvilla, Hillewille and Wallhall.

Hoojahoo managers the thingaviking.

Obning shotly.

When the messanger of the risen sun (see other oriel) shall give to every seeable a hue and to every hearable a cry and to each spectacle his spot and to each happening her houram.

The while we, we are waiting, we are waiting for.

Hymn.

MUTA: Quodestnunc fumusiste volhvuns ex Domoyno?

JUVA: It is Old Head of Kettle puffing off the top of the mornin.

MUTA: He odda be thorly well ashamed of himself for smoking before the high host.

JUVA: Dies is Dorminus master and commandant illy tonobrass.

MUTA: Diminussed aster!

An I could peercieve amonkst the gatherings who so ever they wolk in process?

JUVA: Khubadah!

It is the Chrystanthemlander with his porters of bonzos, pompommy plonkyplonk, the ghariwallahs, moveyovering the cabrattlefield of slaine.

MUTA: Pongo da Banza!

An I would uscertain in druidful scatterings one piece tall chap he stand one piece same place?

JUVA: Bulkily: and he is fundementially theosophagusted over the whorse proceedings.

MUTA: Petrificationibus!

O horrild haraflare!

Who his dickhuns now re-arrexes from undernearth the memorialorum?

JUVA: Beleave, beleave filmly!

Fing Fing!

King King!

MUTA: Ulloverum?

Fulgitudo ejus Rhedonum teneat!

JUVA: Rolantlossly!

Till the tipp of his ziff.

And the ubideintia of the savium is our ervics fenicitas.

MUTA: Why soly smiles the supremest with such for a leary on his rugular lips?

JUVA: Bitchorbotchum!

Eebrydime!

He has helf his crewn on the burkeley boy but he has holf his crown on the Eurasian Generalissimo.

MUTA: Skulkasloot!

The twyly velleid is thus then paridicynical?

JUVA: Ut vivat volumen sic pereat pouradosus!

MUTA: Haven money on Stablecert?

JUVA: Tempt to wom Outsider!

MUTA: Suc?

He quoffs.

Wutt?

JUVA: Sec!

Wartar wartar!

Wett.

MUTA: Ad Piabelle et Purabelle?

JUVA: At Winne, Woermann og Sengs.

MUTA: So that when we shall have acquired unification we shall pass on to diversity and when we shall have passed on to diversity we shall have acquired the instinct of combat and when we shall have acquired the instinct of combat we shall pass back to the spirit of appeasement?

JUVA: By the light of the bright reason which daysends to us from the high.

MUTA: May I borrow that hordwanderbaffle from you, old rubberskin?

JUVA: Here it is and I hope it’s your wormingpen, Erinmonker!

Shoot.

Rhythm and Colour at Park Mooting.

Peredos Last in the Grand Natural.

Velivision victor.

Dubs newstage oldtime turftussle, recalling Winny Willy Widger.

Two draws.

Heliotrope leads from Harem.

Three ties.

Jockey the Ropper jerks Jake the Rape.

Paddrock and bookley chat.

And here are the details.

Tunc.

Bymby bullocky vampas tappany bobs topside joss pidgin fella Belkelly, archdruid of islish chinchinjoss, in the his heptachromatic seven-hued septicoloured roranyellgreeblindigan mantle finish he show along the his mister guest Patholic with alb the whose throat hum with of sametime all the his cassock groaner fellas of greysfriaryfamily he fast all time what time all him monkafellas with Same Patholic, quoniam speeching yeh speeching noh man liberty is, he drink up words belongahim, scilicet tomorrow till recover will not, all too many much illusiones through photoprismic velamina of hueful panepiphanal world spectacurum of lord Joss, the of which zoantholithic furniture, from mineral through vegetal to animal, not appear to full up together fallen man than under but one photoreflectione of the several iridals gradationes of solar light, that one which that part of it (furnit of huepanepi world) had shown itself (part of fur of huepanwor) unable to absorbere, whereas for numpa one puradduxed seer in seventh degree of wisdom of Entis-Onton he savvy inside true inwardness of reality, tha Ding hvad in idself id ist, all objects (of panepiwor) all-side showed themselves in trues coloribus resplendent with sextuple gloria of light actually retained, untisintus, inside them (obs of epiwo).

Rumnant Patholic, stareotypopticuss, no catch all that preachybook, utpiam tomorrow recover thing even is not, bymby vampsybobsy tappanasbullocks topside joss pidgin fella Bilkilly-Belkelly say patfella, ontesantes, twotime hemhaltshealing, with other words verbigratiagrading from murmurulentous till stridulocelerious in a hunghoranghoangoly tsinglontseng while his comprehendurient, with diminishing claractinism, augumentationed himself in caloripeia to vision so throughsighty, you anxioust melancholic, High Thats Hight Uberking Leary his fiery grassbelonghead all show colour of sorrelwood herbgreen, again, niggerblonker, of the his essixcoloured holmgrewnworsteds costume the his fellow saffron pettikilt look same hue of boiled spinasses, other thing, voluntary mutismuser, he not compyhandy the his royal golden twobreasttorc look justsamelike curlicabbis, moreafter, to pace negativisticists, verdant readyrainroof belongahim Exuber High Oberking Leary very dead, what he wish to say, spit of superexuberabundancy plenty laurel leaves, afterthat commander bulopent eyes of Most Highest Ardreetsar same thing like thyme choppy upon parsley, alongsidethat, if pleasesir no displace tanttung sowlofabishospastored, enamel Indian gem in maledictive fingerfondler of High High Siresultan Emperor all same like one fellow olive lentil, otherlongsidethat, by andesendas, kirikirikiring, violaceous warwon contusiones of facebits of Highup Big Cockywocky Sublissimime Autocrat, for that with pure hueglut intensely saturated one, tinged uniformly allaroundside upinandoutdown very like you seecut chowchow of plentymuch sennacassia.

Hump cumps Ebblybally.

Sukkot?

Punc.

Bigseer, refrects the petty padre, whackling it out to take a tumble, tripeness to call thingany to call if say is good while, you pore shiroskuro blackinwhitepaddynger, by thiswise aposterioprismically apatstrophied and paralogically periparolysed, celestial from principalest of Iro’s Irismans ruinboon pot before (for beingtime monkblinkers timebeinged completamentarily murkblankered in their neutrolysis between the possible viriditude of the sager and the probable eruberuption of the saint), as My tappropinquish to Me wipenmeselps gnosegates a handcaughtsheaf of synthetic shammyrag to hims hers, seemingsuch four three two agreement cause heart to be might, saving to Balenoarch (he kneeleths), to Great Balenoark (he kneeleths down), to Greatest Great Balenoarch (he kneeleths down quitesomely), the sound sense sympol in a weedwayedwold of the firethere the sun in his halo cast.

Onmen.

That was thing, bygotter, the thing, bogcotton, the very thing, begad!

Even to uptoputty Bilkilly-Belkelly-Balkally.

Who was for shouting down the shatton on the lamp of Jeeshees.

Sweating on to stonker and throw his seven.

As he shuck his thumping fore features apt the hoyhop of His Ards.

Thud.

Good safe firelamp!

hailed the heliots.

Goldselforelump!

alled they.

Awed.

Where thereon the skyfold high, trampatrampatramp.

Adie.

Per ye oomdoom doominoom noonstroom.

Yeasome priestomes.

Fullyhum toowhoom.

Taawhaar?

Sants and sogs, cabs and cobs, kings and karls, tentes and taunts.

’Tis gone in farover.

So fore now, dayleash.

Pour dedag!

To trance-fixureashone.

Feist of Taborneccles, scenopegia, come!

Shamwork, be in our scheining!

And let every crisscouple be so crosscomplimentary, little eggons, youlk and meelk, in a farbiger pancosmos.

With a hottyhammyum all round.

Gudstruce!

Yet is no body present here which was not there before.

Only is order othered.

Nought is nulled.

Fuitfiat!

Lo, the laud of laurens now orielising benedictively when saint and sage have said their say.

A spathe of calyptrous glume involucrumines the perinanthean Amenta: fungoalgaceous muscafilicial graminapalmular planteon; of increasing, livivorous, feelful thinkamalinks; luxuriotiating everywhencewhithersoever among skullhullows and charnelcysts of a weedwastewoldweirld when Ralph the Retriever ranges to jawrode his knuts knuckles and her theas thighs; one gugulp down of the nauseous forere brarkfarsts oboboomaround and you’re right as paint and spickspan as a rainbow; wreathe the bowl to rid the bowel; no runcure, no rank heat, sir; amess in amullium; chlorid cup.

Health, chalce, endnessnessessity!

Arrive, lukkypiggers, in a poke!

The folgor of the frightfools is olympically optimominous; there is bound to be a lovleg day for mirrages in the open; Murnane and Aveling are undertoken to berry that ortchert: provided that.

You got to make good that breachsuit, seamer.

You going to haulm port houlm, toilermaster.

You yet must get up to kill (nonparticular).

You still stand by and do as hit (private).

While for yous, Jasminia Aruna and all your likers, affinitatively must it be by you elected if Monogynes his is or hers Diander, the tubous, limbersome and nectarial.

Owned or grazeheifer, ethel or bonding, Mopsus or Gracchus, all your horodities will incessantlament be coming back from the Annone Wishwashwhose, Ormepierre Lodge, Doone of the Drumes, blanches bountifully and nights end made up, every article entrusted to care going through several latherings and every lathering leaving several rinsings so as each rinse results with a dapperent rolle, cuffs for meek and chokers for sheek and a kink in the pacts for namby.

Forbeer, forbear!

For nought that is has bane.

In mournenslaund.

Themes have thimes and habit reburns.

To flame in you.

Ardor vigor forders order.

Since ancient was our living is in possible to be.

Delivered as.

Caffirs and culls and onceagain overalls, the fittest survivalives that blued, iorn and storridge can make them.

Whichus all claims.

Clean.

Whenatscleeps.

Close.

And the mannormillor clipper-clappers.

Noxt.

Dose.

Fennsense, finnsonse, awarn!

Tuck upp those wide shorts.

The pink of the busket for sheer give.

Peeps.

Stand up to hard ware and step into style.

If you soil may, puett, guett me prives.

For newmanmaun set a marge to the merge of unnotions.

Innition wons agame.

What has gone?

How it ends?

Begin to forget it.

It will remember itself from every sides, with all gestures, in each our word.

Today’s truth, tomorrow’s trend.

Forget, remember!

Have we cherished expectations?

Are we for liberty of perusiveness?

Whyafter what forewheres?

A plainplanned liffeyism assemblements Eblania’s conglomerate horde.

By dim delty Deva.

Forget!

Our wholemole millwheeling vicociclometer, a tetradomational gazebocroticon (the “Mamma Lujah” known to every schoolboy scandaller, be he Matty, Marky, Lukey or John-a-Donk), autokinatonetically preprovided with a clappercoupling smeltingworks exprogressive process (for the farmer, his son and their homely codes, known as eggburst, eggblend, eggburial and hatch-as-hatch can), receives through a portal vein the dialytically separated elements of precedent decomposition for the verypetpurpose of subsequent recombination so that the heroticisms, catastrophes and eccentricities transmitted by the ancient legacy of the past, type by tope, letter from litter, word at ward, with sendence of sundance, since the days of Plooney and Columcellas when Giacinta, Pervenche and Margaret swayed over the all-too-ghoulish and illyrical and innumantic in our mutter nation, all, anastomosically assimilated and preteridentified paraidiotically, in fact, the sameold gamebold adomic structure of our Finnius the old One, as highly charged with electrons as hophazards can effective it, may be there for you, Cockalooralooraloomenos, when cup, platter and pot come piping hot, as sure as herself pits hen to paper and there’s scribings scrawled on eggs.

Of cause, so!

And in effect, as?

Dear.

And we go on to Dirtdump.

Revered.

May we add majesty?

Well, we have frankly enjoyed more than anything those secret workings of natures (thanks ever for it, we humbly pray) and, well, was really so denighted of this lights time.

Mucksrats which bring up about uhrweckers they will come to know good.

Yon clouds will soon disappear looking forwards at a fine day.

The honourable Master Sarmon they should be first born like he was, with a twohangled warpon, and it was between Williamstown and the Mairrion Ailesbury on the top of the longcar, as merrily we rolled along, we think of him looking at us yet as if to pass away in a cloud.

When he woke up in a sweat besidus it was to pardon him, goldylocks, me having an airth, but he daydreamsed we had a lovelyt face for a pulltomine.

Back we were by the jerk of a beamstark, backed in paladays last, on the brinks of the wobblish, the man what never put a dramn in the swags but milk from a national cowse.

That was the prick of the spindle to me that gave me the keys to dreamland.

Sneakers in the grass, keep off!

If we were to tick off all that cafflers head, whisperers, for his accomodation, the brothers me craw namely, and their bacon what harmed butter!

It’s margarseen oil.

Thinthin thinthin.

Stringstly is it forbidden by the honorary tenth commendment to shall not bare full sweetness against a nighboor’s wiles.

What those slimes up the cavern door around you, keenin, the lies is coming out on them frecklefully, had the shames to suggest, can we ever?

Never!

So may the law forget him their trespasses against Molloyd O’Reilly, that hugglebeddy fann here in my bed now about to get up, the hartiest that Coolock ever!

A nought in nought Eirinishmhan called Ervigsen by his first mate.

May all similar douters of our oldhame story have that fancied widning!

For a pipe of twist or a slug of Hibernia metal we could let out and, by jings, someone would make a carpus of somebody with the greatest of pleasure by private shootings.

And, in contravention to the constancy of chemical combinations, not enough of all the slatters of him left for Peeter the Picker to make their threi sevelty filfths of a man out of.

Good wheat!

How delitious for the three Sulvans of Dulkey and what a sellpriceget the two Peris of Monacheena!

Sugars of lead for the chloras ashpots!

Peace!

He possessing from a child of highest valency for our privileged beholdings ever complete hairy of chest, hamps and eyebags in pursuance to salesladies’ affectionate company.

