
Tarra’s widdars!

This is jinnies in the bonny bawn blooches.

This is lipoleums in the rowdy howses.

This is the Willingdone, by the splinters of Cork, order fire.

Tonnerre!

(Bullsear!

Play!)

This is camelry, this is floodens, this is the solphereens in actiom, this is their mobbily, this is panickburns.

Almeidagad!

Arthiz tooloose!

This is Willingdone cry.

Brum!

Brum!

Cumbrum!

This is jinnies cry.

Underwetter!

Ghoat strip Finnlambs!

This is jinnies rinning away to their ousterlists dowan a bunkersheels.

With a nip nippy nip and a trip trippy trip so airy.

For their heart’s right there.

Tip.

This is me Belchum’s tinkyou tankyou silvoor plate for citchin the crapes in the cool of his canister.

Poor the pay!

This is the bissmark of the marathon merry of the jinnies they left behind them.

This is the Willingdone branlish his same marmorial tallowscoop Sophy-key-po for his royal divorsion on the rinnaway jinnies.

Gambariste della porca!

Dalaveras fimmieras!

This is the pettiest of the lipoleums, Toffeethief, that spy on the same Willingdone from his big white harse, the Capeinhope.

Stonewall Willingdone is an old maxy montrumeny.

Lipoleums is nice hung bushellors.

This is hiena hinnessy laughing alout at the Willingdone.

This is lipsyg dooley krieging the funk from the hinnessy.

This is the hinndoo Shimar Shin between the dooleyboy and the hinnessy.

Tip.

This is the wixy old Willingdone picket up the half of the threefoiled hat of lipoleums fromoud of the bluddlefilth.

This is the hinndoo waxing ranjymad for a bombshoob.

This is the Willingdone hanking the half of the hat of lipoleums up the tail on the buckside of his big white harse.

Tip.

That was the last joke of Willingdone.

Hit, hit, hit!

This is the same white harse of the Willingdone, Culpenhelp, waggling his tailoscrupp with the half of a hat of lipoleums to insoult on the hinndoo seeboy.

Hney, hney, hney!

(Bullsrag!

Foul!)

This is the seeboy, madrashattaras, upjump and pumpim, cry to the Willingdone: Ap Pukkaru!

Pukka Yurap!

This is the Willingdone, bornstable ghentleman, tinders his maxbotch to the cursigan Shimar Shin.

Basucker youstead!

This is the dooforhim seeboy blow the whole of the half of the hat of lipoleums off of the top of the tail on the back of his big wide harse.

Tip.

(Bullseye!

Game!)

How Copenhagen ended.

This way the museyroom.

Mind your boots goan out!

Phew!

What a warm time we were in there but how keling is here the airabouts!

We nowhere she lives but you mussna tell annaone for the lamp of Jig-a-Lanthorn!

It’s a candlelitten houthse of a month and one windies.

Downadown, High Downadown.

And nummered quaintlymine.

And such reasonable weather too!

The wagrant wind’z awalt’z around the piltdowns and on every blasted knollyrock (if you can spot fifty I spy four more) there’s that gnarlybird ygathering, a runalittle, doalittle, preealittle, pouralittle, wipea-little, kicksalittle, severalittle, eatalittle, whinealittle, kenalittle, helfalittle, pelfalittle gnarlybird.

A verytableland of bleakbardfields!

Under his seven wrothschields lies one, Lumproar.

His glav toside him.

Skud ontorsed.

Our pigeons pair are flewn for northcliffs.

The three of crows have flapped it southenly, kraaking of de baccle to the kvarters of that sky whence triboos answer: Wail, ’tis well!

She nivver comes out when Thon’s on shower or when Thon’s flash with his Nixy girls or when Thon’s blowing toomcracks down the gaels of Thon.

No nubo no!

Neblas on you liv!

Her would be too moochy afreet.

Of Burymeleg and Bindmerollingeyes and all the deed in the woe.

Fe fo fom!

She jist does hopes till byes will be byes.

Here, and it goes on to appear now, she comes, a peacefugle, a parody’s bird, a peri potmother, a pringlpik in the ilandiskippy, with peewees and powwows in beggy-baggy on her bickybacky and a flick flask fleckflinging its pixylighting pacts’ huemeramybows, picking here, pecking there, pussypussy plunderpussy.

But it’s the armitides toonigh, militopucos, and toomourn we wish for a muddy kissmans to the minutia workers and there’s to be a gorgeups truce for happinest childher everwere.

Come nebo me and suso sing the day we sallybright.

She’s burrowed the coacher’s headlight the better to pry (who goes cute goes siocur and shoos aroun) and all spoiled goods go into her nab-sack: curtrages and rattlin buttins, nappy spattees and flasks of all nations, clavicures and scampulars, maps, keys and woodpiles of haypennies and moonled brooches with bloostaned breeks in em and boaston nightgarters and masses of shoesets and nickelly nacks and fodder allmicheal and a lugly parson of cates and howitzer muchears and midgers and maggets, ills and ells with loffs of toffs and pleures of belles, and the last sigh that come fro the hart (bucklied!)

and the fairest sin the sun saw (that’s cearc!).

With Kiss.

Kiss Criss.

Cross Criss.

Kiss Cross.

Undo lives’ end.

Slain.

How bootifull and how truetowife of her, when strengly forebidden, to steal our historic presents from the past postpropheticals so as will make us all lordyheirs and ladymaidesses of a pretty nice kettle of fruit.

She is livving in our midst of debt and laffing through all plores for us (her birth is uncontrollable!

), with a naperon made to mask and her sabboes hikkikking arias (so sair!

so solly!

), if yous ask me and I saack you.

Hou!

Hou!

Gricks may rise and Troysirs fall (there being two sights for ever a picture) for in the byways of high improvidence that’s what makes lifework leaving and the world’s a cell for citters to cit in.

Let young wimman run away with the story and let young min talk smooth behind the butteler’s back.

She knows her knight’s duty while Luntum sleeps.

Did ye save any tin?

says he.

Did I what?

with a grin says she.

And we all like a marriedann because she is mercenary.

Though the length of the land lies under liquidation (floote!)

and there’s nare a hairbrow nor an eyebrusch on this glaubrous phace of Herrschuft Whatarwelter she’ll loan a vesta and hire some peat and sarch the shores her cockles to heat and she’ll do all a turf-woman can to piff the business on.

Paff.

To puff the blaziness on.

Poffpoff.

And even if Humpty shell fall frumpty times as awkward again in the beardsboosoloom of all our grand remonstrancers there’ll be iggs for the brekkers come to mournhim, sunny side up with care.

So true is it that therewhere’s a turnover the tay is wet too and when you think you ketch sight of a hind make sure but you’re cocked by a hin.

Then as she is on her behaviourite job of quainance bandy, fruting for firstlings and taking her tithe, we may take our review of the two mounds, to see nothing of the himples here as at elsewhere, by sixes and sevens, like so many heegills and collines sitton aroont, scentbreeched and somepotreek, in their swishawish satins and their taffetaffe tights, playing Wharton’s Folly at a treepurty on the planko in the purk.

Stippup, mickos!

Make strake for minnas!

By order, Nicholas Proud.

We may see and hear nothing if we choose of the shortlegged bergins off Corkhill or the bergamoors of Arbourhill or the bergagambols of Summerhill or the bergincellies of Miseryhill or the countrybossed bergones of Constitutionhill though every crowd has its several tones and every trade has its clever mechanics and each harmonical has a point of its own, Olaf ’s on the rise and Ivor’s on the lift and Sitric’s place’s between them.

But all they are all there scraping along to sneeze out a likelihood that will solve and salve life’s robulous rebus, hopping round his middle like kippers on a griddle, O, as he lays dormont from the macroborg of Holdhard to the microbirg of Pied de Poudre.

Behove this sound of Irish sense.

Really?

Here English might be seen.

Royally?

One sovereign punned to petery pence.

Regally?

The silence speaks the scene.

Fake!

So This Is Dyoublong?

Hush!

Caution!

Echoland!

How charmingly exquisite!

It reminds you of the outwashed engravure that we used to be blurring on the blotchwall of his innkempt house.

Used they?

(I am sure that tiring chabelshoveller with the mujikal chocolot box, Miry Mitchel, is listening.)

I say, the remains of the outworn gravemure where used to be blurried the Ptollmens of the Incabus.

Used we?

(He is only pretendant to be stugging at the jubalee harp from a second existed lishener, Fiery Farrelly.)

It is well known.

Look for himself and see the old butte new.

Dbln.

W.K.O.O.

Hear?

By the mausolime wall.

Fimfim fimfim.

With a grand funferall.

Fumfum fumfum.

’Tis optophone which ontophanes.

List!

Wheatstone’s magic lyer!

They will be tuggling foriver.

They will be lichening for allof.

They will be pretumbling forover.

The harps-dischord shall be theirs for ollaves.

Four things therefore, saith our herodotary Mammon Lujius in his grand old historiorum, wrote near Boriorum, bluest book in baile’s annals, f.t.

in Dyfflinarsky ne’er sall fail til heathersmoke and cloudweed Eire’s ile sall pall.

And here now they are, the fear of um.

Notities!

Unum.

(Adar.)

A bulbenboss surmounted upon an elderman.

Ay, ay!

Duum.

(Nizam.)

A shoe on a puir owld wobban.

Ah, ho!

Triom.

(Tamuz.)

An auburn mayde, o’brine a’bride, to be desarted.

Adear, adear!

Quodlibus.

(Marchessvan.)

A penn no weightier nor a polepost.

And so.

And all.

(Succoth.)

So, how idlers’ wind turning pages on pages, as innocens with anaclete play popeye antipop, the leaves of the living in the boke of the deeds, annals of themselves, timing the cycles of events grand and national, bring fassilwise to pass how 1132 A.D. Men like to ants or emmets wondern upon a groot hwide Whallfisk which lay in a Runnel.

Blubby wares upat Ublanium.

566 A.D. On Baalfire’s eve of this year after deluge a crone that hadde a wickered kish for to hale dead turves from the bog lookit under the blay of her kish as she ran for to sothisfeige her cowrieosity and be me sawl but she foun hersell sackvulle of swart goody quickenshoon and small illigant brogues, so rich in sweat.

Bluchy works at Hurdlesford.

[Silent] 566 A.D. At this time it fell out that a brazenlockt damsel grieved (Sobralasolas!)

because that Puppette her minion was ravisht of her by the ogre Puropeus Pious.

Bloody wars in Ballyaughacleeaghbally.

1132 A.D. Two sons at an hour were born until a goodman and his hag.

These sons called themselves Caddy and Primas.

Primas was a santryman and drilled all decent people.

Caddy went to Winehouse and wrote o peace a farce.

Blotty words for Dublin.

Somewhere, parently, in the ginnandgoe gap between antediluvious and annadominant the copyist must have fled with his scroll.

The billy flood rose or an elk charged him or the sultrup worldwright from the excelsissimost empyrean (bolt, in sum) earthspake or the Dannaman gallous banged pan the bliddy duran.

A scribicide then and there is led off under old’s code with some fine covered by six marks or ninepince in metalmen for the sake of his labour’s dross while it will be only now and again in our rear of o’er era, as an upshoot of military and civil engagements, that a gynecure was let on to the scuffold for taking that same fine sum covertly by meddlement with the drawers of his neighbour’s safe.

Now after all that, farfatch’d and peregrine or duignant or clere, lift we our ears, eyes of the darkness, from the tome of Liber Lividus and (toh!)

how paisibly eirenical, all dimmering dunes and gloamering glades, selfstretches afore us our fredeland’s plain!

Lean neath stone pine the pastor lies with his crook; young pricket by pricket’s sister nibbleth on returned viridities; amaid her rocking grasses the herb trinity shams lowliness; skyup is of ever-grey.

Thus, too, for donkey’s years.

Since the bouts of Hebear and Hairy-man the cornflowers have been staying at Ballymun, the duskrose has choosed out Goatstown’s hedges, twolips have pressed togatherthem by sweet Rush, townland of twinedlights, the whitethorn and the redthorn have fairygayed the mayvalleys of Knockmaroon: and, though for rings round them, during a chiliad of perihelygangs, the Formoreans have brittled the tooath of the Danes and the Oxman has been pestered by the Firebugs and the Joynts have thrown up jerrybuilding to the Kevanses and Little on the Green is childsfather to the City (Year!

Year!

And laughtears!

), these paxsealing buttonholes have quadrilled across the centuries and whiff now whafft to us, fresh and made-of-all-smiles as on the eve of Killallwho.

The babbelers with their thangas vain have been (confusium hold them!

); they were and went; thigging thugs were and houhnhymn songtoms were and comely norgels were and pollyfool fiansees.

Men have thawed, clerks have surssurhummed, the blond has sought of the brune: Elsekiss thou may, mean kerry piggy?

And the duncledames have countered with the hellish fellows: Who ails tongue coddeau, aspace of dumbillsilly?

And they fell upong one another: and themselves they have fallen.
