Kainly forewarred.

Abraham Badly’s King, Park Bogey.

Salved.

All reddy berried.

Hollow and eavy.

Desert it.

Overwayed.

Understumped.

Back to the P.O.

Kaer of.

Owns owe M.O.

Too Let.

To Be Soiled.

Cohabited by Unfortunates.

Lost all Licence.

His Bouf Toe is Frozen Over.

X, Y and Z, Ltd, Destinied Tears.

A.B, ab, Sender.

Boston (Mass).

31 Jun.

13.12 P.D.

Razed.

Lawyered.

Vacant.

Mined.

Here’s the Bayleaffs.

Step out to Hall out of that, Ereweaker, with your Bloody Big Bristol.

Bung.

Stop.

Bung.

Stop.

Cumm Bumm.

Stop.

Came Baked to Auld Aireen.

Stop.

— Kind Shaun, we all requested, much as we hate to say it, but since you rose to the use of money have you not, without suggesting for an instant, millions of moods used up slanguage tun times as words as the penmarks used out in sinscript with such hesitancy by your cerebrated brother—excuse me not mentioningahem?

— CelebrAted!

Shaun replied under the sheltar of his broguish, vigorously rubbing his magic lantern to a glow of fullconsciousness.

HeCitEncy!

Your words grates on my ares.

Notorious I rather would feel inclined to myself in the first place to describe Mr O’Shem the Draper with before letter as should I be accentually called upon for a dieoguinnsis to pass my opinions, properly spewing, into impulsory irelitz.

But I would not care to be so unfruitful to my own part as to swear for the moment positively as to the views of Denmark.

No, sah!

But let me say my every belief before my high Gee is that I much doubt of it.

I’ve no room for that fellow on my fagroaster.

I just can’t.

As I hourly learn from Rooters and Havers through Gilligan’s maypoles in a nice pathetic notice, he, the pixillated doodler, is on his last with illegible clergimanitis, boasting always of his ruddy complexious.

She, the mammyfar, was put up to it by him, the iniquity, that ought to be depraved of his libertins, to be silenced, sackclothed and suspended, and placed in irons into some drapery institution off the antipopees for wordsharping only if he was klanver enough to pass the panel fleischcurers and the fieldpost censor.

Gach!

For that is a fullblown fact and well celibated before the four divorce courts and all the King’s paunches, how he has the solitary from seeing Scotch snakes and has a lowsense for the production of consumption and dalickeycyphalos on his brach premises where he can purge his contempt, dejeunerate into a skillyton and be thinking himself to death.

Rot him!

Flannelfeet!

Flattyro!

I will describe you in a word.

Thou.

(I beg your pardon.)

Homo!

Then putting his bedfellow on me!

Like into mike and nick onto post.

The criniman!

I’ll give it to him for that!

Making the lobbard change his stops, as we say in the long book.

Is he on whosekeeping or are my?

Obnoximost posthumust!

With his unique hornbook and his prince of the apauper’s pride, blundering all over the two worlds!

If he waits till I buy him a mosselman’s present!

He’s nos halfcousin of mine, pigdish!

Nor wants to!

I’d famish with the cuistha first.

A ham!

— May we petition you, Shaun illustrious, then, to put his prentis’ pride in your aproper’s purse and to unravel in your own sweet way with words of style to your very humble and most obsequient, we suggested, with yet an esiop’s foible, as to how?

— Well, it is partly my own, isn’t it, and you may, ought and welcome, Shaun replied, taking at the same time, as his hunger got the bitter of him, a hearty bite out of the honeycomb of his Braham and Melo’s edible hat, tryone, tryon and triune.

Ann wunkum.

Sure, I thunkum you knew all about that, Honoreys causes, through thelementary channels long agum.

Sure, that is as old as the Baden bees of Saint Dominoc’s and as commonpleas now to allus pueblows and bunkum as Nelson his trifulgurayous pillar.

However.

Let me see, do.

Beerman’s bluff was what begun it, Old Knoll and his barrowing.

And then the lilies of the veldt, Nancy Nickies and Folletta Lajambe.

Then mem and hem and the jaquejack.

All about Wucherer and righting his name for him.

I regret to announce, after laying out his litterery bed, for two days she kept squealing down for noisy priors and bawling out to her jameymock farceson in Shemish like a mouther of the incas with a garcielasso huw Ananymus pinched her tights and about the Balt with the markshaire parawag and his loyal divorces, when he feraxiously shed ovas in Alemaney, tse, tse, all the tell of the tud with the bourighevisien backclack; and him, the cribibber, like an ambitrickster, aspiring like the decan’s, fast aslooped in the intrance to his polthronechair with his sixth finger between his catseye and the index, making his pillgrimace of Child Horrid, engrossing to his ganderpan the idioglossary he invented under hicks hyssop!

Hock!

Ickick gave him that toock, imitator!

And it was entirely theck latter to blame.

Does he drink because I am sorely there shall be no more Kates and Nells?

If you see him it took place then.

It was given meeck, thank the Bench, to assist at the whole thing byck special chancery licence.

As often as I think of that unbloody housewarmer, Shem Skrivenitch, always cutting my prhose to please his phrase, bigorror, I declare I get the jawache!

Be me punting his reflection he’d begin his beogrefright in muddyass ribalds.

Digteter!

Grundtsagar!

Swop beef!

You know, he’s peculiar, that eggschicker, with the smell of old woman off him, to suck nothing of his switched-ups.

M.D.

made his ante mortem for him.

He was grey at three like Sygnus the swan when he made his boo to the public and barnacled up to the eyes when he repented after seven.

The alum that winters on his top is the stale of the staun that will soar when he stambles till that hag of the coombe rapes the pad off his lock.

He was down with the whooping laugh at the age of the loss of reason the whopping first time he prediseased me.

He’s weird, I tell you, and middayevil down to his vegetable soul.

Never mind his falls feet and his tanbark complexion.

That’s why he was forbidden tomate and was warmed off the ricecourse of marrimoney under the Helpless Corpses Enactment.

I’m not at all surprised the saint kicked him whereby the sum taken Berkeley showed the reason genrously.

Negas, negasti—negertop, negertoe, negertoby, negrunter!

Then he was pusched out of Thingamuddy’s school by Miss Garterd for itching.

Then he caught the europicolas and went into the society of jewses.

With Bro Cahlls and Fran Czeschs and Bruda Pszths and Brat Slavos.

One temp, when he foiled to be killed, the freak wanted to put his bilingual head intentionally through the Ikish Tames and go and join the clericy as a demonican skyterrier.

Throwing dust in the eyes of the Hooley Fermers!

He used to be avowdeed as he ought to be vitandust.

For onced I squeaked by twyst I’ll squelch him.

Then he went to Cecilia’s treat on his solo to pick up Galen.

Asbestopoulos!

Inkupot!

He has encaust in the blood.

Shim!

I have the outmost contempt for.

Prost bitten!

Conshy!

Tiberia is waiting on you, arestocrank!

Chaka a seagull ticket at Gattabuia and Gabbiano’s!

Go o’er the sea, haythen, from me, and leave your libber to T.C.D.

Your puddin is cooked!

You’re served, cram ye!

Fatefully yaourth… Ex.

Ex.

Ex.

Ex.

— But for what, thrice truthful teller, Shaun of grace, weakly we went on to ask now of the gracious one.

Vouchsafe to say.

You will now, goodness, won’t you?

Why?

— For his root language, if you ask me whys, footinmouther, which he picksticked into his lettruce invrention, Shaun replied as he blessed himself devotionally like a crawsbomb, making act of oblivion, what the thickuns else?

Ullhodturdenweirmudgaardgringnirurdrmolnirfenrirlukkilokkibau gimandodrerinsurtkrinmgernrackinarockar!

Thor’s for you!

— The hundredlettered name again, lost word of perfect language.

But you could come near it, we do suppose, strong Shaun O’, we foresupposed.

How?

— Peax!

Peax!

Shaun replied in vealar penultimatum as he swigged a slug of Jon Jacobsen from his treestem sucker cane.

’Tis pebils before Sweeney’s.

Mild but likesome!

I might as well be talking to the four waves till Tibbs’ gray eve and the west’s asleep.

Frost!

Nope!

No one in his seven senses could, as I have before said, only you missed my drift, for it’s being incendiary.

Every dimmed letter in it is a copy and not a few of the silbils and wholly words I can show you in my Kingdom of Heaven.

The lowquacity of him!

With his threestar monothong!

Thaw!

The last word in stolentelling!

And what’s more, rightdown lowbrown schisthematic robblemint!

Yes.

As he was rising my lather.

Like you.

And as I was plucking his goosybone.

Like yea.

He store the tale of me shur.

Like yup.

How’s that for Shemese?

— Still in a way, not to flatter you, we fancy you that are so strikingly brainy and well letterread on yourshelves as ever were the Shamous Shamonous, Limited, could use worse of yourself, ingenious Shaun, we still so fancied, if only you would take your time so and the trouble of so doing it.

Upu now!

— Undoubtedly but that is show, Shaun replied, the muttermelk of his blood donor beginning to work, and while innocent of disseminating the foul emanation it would be a fall day I could not, sole, so you can keep your space, and by the power of blurry wards I am loyable to do it (I am convicted of it!)

any time ever I cheesed to (bet ye fippence off me boot allowance!)

with the allergrossest transfusiasm as, you see, while I can soloquise the Siamanish better than most, it is an openear secret, be it said, how I am extremely ingenuous at the clerking even with my badily left and, arrah go braz, I’d pinsel it with immenuensoes as easy as I’d perorate a chickerow of beans for the price of two maricles, and my trifolium librotto, the authordux Book of Lief, would, if given to daylight (I hold a most incredible faith about it), far exceed what that bogus bolshy of a shame, my soamheis brother, Gaoy Fecks, is conversant with in audible black and prink.

Outragedy of poetscalds!

Acomedy of letters!

I have them all, tame, deep and harried, in my mine’s I.

And one of these fine days, man dear, when the mood is on me, that I may cut my throat with my tongue tonight but I may willhap be ormuzd moved to take potlood in hand and introvent it Paatryk just like a work of merit, mark my words, and append to my mark twang, that will open your pucktricker’s ops for you, broather brooher, only for, as a papst and an immature and a nayophight and a spaciaman spaciosum and a hundred and eleven other things, I would never for anything take so much trouble of such doing.

And why so?

Because I am altogether a chap too fly and hairyman for to infradig the like of that ultravirulence.

And by all I hold sacred on earth, clouds and in heaven I swear to you on my piop and oath by the awe of Shaun (and that’s a howl of a name!)

that I will commission to the flames any incendiarist whosoever or ahriman howsoclever who would endeavour to set ever annyma roner moother of mine on fire.

Rock me, Julie, but I will soho!

And, with that crickcrackcruck of his threelungged squool from which grief had usupped every smile, big hottempered husky fusky krenfy strenfy pugiliser such as he was, he virtually broke down on the mooherhead, getting quite jerry over her, overpowered by himself with the love of the tearsilver that he twined through her hair, for, sure, he was the soft semplgawn slob of the world with a heart like Montgomery’s in his showchest and harvey loads of feeling in him and as innocent and undesignful as the freshfallen calef.

Still, grossly unselfish in sickself, he dished allarmes away and laughed it off with a wipe at his pudgies and a gulp apologetic, healing his tare be the smeyle of his oye, oogling aroond.

Him belly no belong sollow mole pigeon.

Ally bully.

Fu Li’s gulpa.

Mind you, now, that he was in the dumpest of earnest orthough him jawr war hoo hleepy hor halk urthing hurther.

Moe.

Like that only he stopped short and, in looking up up up-from his tideshackled wrists through the ghost of an ocean upon the wieds of pansiful heathvens of joepeter’s gaseytotum as they are telling not but were and will be, all told, scruting foreback into the fargoneahead to feel out what age in years tropical, ecclesiastic, civil or sidereal he might find by the sirious pointstand of Charley’s Wain (what betune the spheres sledding along the lacteal and the mansions of the blest turning on old times), as erewhile had he craved of thus, the dreamskhwindel necklassoed him, his thumbs fell into his fists and, lusosing the harmonical balance of his ballbearing extremities, by the holy kettle, like a flask of lightning over he careened (O the sons of the fathers!)

by the mightyfine weight of his barrel (all that prevented the happening of, who, if not the asterisks betwink themselves, shall ever?)

and, as the wisest postlude he could playact, collapsed in ensemble and rolled buoyantly backwards in less than a twinkling via Rattigan’s corner out of further earshot with his highly curious mode of slipashod motion, surefoot, sorefoot, slickfoot, slackfoot, linkman laizurely, lampman loungey, and by Killesther’s lapes and falls, with corks and staves and treeleaves and more bubbles to his keelrow, a fairish and easy way enough as the town cow cries behind the times in the direction of MacAuliffe’s, the crucethouse, Open the Door Softly, down in the valley, before he was really uprighted ere in a dip of the downs (uila!)

he spoorlessly disappaled and vanesshed, like a popo down a papa, from circular circulatio.

Ah, mean!

Gaogaogaone!

Tapaa!

And the stellas were shinings.

And the earthnight strewed aromatose.

His pibrook creppt mong the donkness.

A reek was waft on the luftstream.

He was ours, all fragrance.

And we were his for a lifetime.

O dulcid dreamings, languidous!

Taboccoo!

It was sharming!

But scharmeng!

And the lamp went out as it couldn’t glow on burning, yep, the lmp wnt out for it couldn’t stay alight.

