Sheepshopp.

Bleating Goad, it is the least of things, Eyeinstye!

Imagine it, my deep dartry dullard!

It is hours giving, not more.

I’m only out for celebridging over the guilt of the gap in your hiscitendency.

You are a hundred thousand times welcome, old wortsampler, hellbeit you’re just about as culpable as my woolfell merger would be.

Come si compita cunctititillitation?

Conkerycunk, thighthightickellythigh, liggerilag, titteritot, leg in a tee, lug in a law, two at a tie, three on a thricky till ohio ohio ioiomiss.

The Twofold Truth and the Conjunctive Appetites of Oppositional Orexes.

In effect I could engage in an energument over you till you were republicly royally toobally prussic blue in the shirt after.7 Trionfante di bestia!

And if you’re not your bloater’s kipper may I never curse again on that pint I took of Jamesons.

Old Keane now, you’re rod, hook and sinker, old jubalee Keane!

Biddy’s hair.

Biddy’s hair, mine lubber.

Where is that Quin but he sknows it knot but what you that are my popular endphthisisis were born Trishagion.

with a solver arm up your sleep?

Thou in shanty!

Thou in scanty shanty!!

Thou in slanty scanty shanty!!!

Bide in your hush!

Bide in your hush, do!

The law does not aloud you to shout.

I plant my penstock in your postern, chinarpot.

Ave. And let it be to all remembrance.

Vale.

Ovocation of maiding waters.1 For auld lang salvey steyne.

I defend you to champ my scullion’s praises.

To book alone belongs the lobe.

Foremaster’s meed2 will mark tomorrow when we are making pilscrummage to whaboggeryin with staff, scarf and blessed wallet and our aureoles round our neckkandcropfs where as and when Heavysciugardaddy, parent who offers sweetmeats, will Abnegation is Adaptation.

gift uns his Noblett’s surprize.

With this laudable purpose in loudability let us be singulfied.

Betwixt me and thee hung cong.

Item, mizpah ends.

But while the dial are they doodling dawdling over the mugs and the grubs?

Oikey, Impostolopulos?3 Steady steady steady steady steady studiavimus.

Many many many many many manducabimus.4 We’ve had our day at triv and quad and writ our bits as intermidgets.

Art, literature, politics, economy, chemistry, humanity, &c. Enter the cop and how.

Secures gubernant urbis terrorem.

Cato.

Duty, the Daughter of Discipline, Nero.

The Great Fire at the South City Markets, Saul.

Belief in Giants and the Banshee, Aristotle.

A Place for Everything and Everything in its Place, Julius Caesar.

Is the Pen Mightier than the Sword?

Pericles.

A Successful Career in the Civil Service,5 Ovid.

The Voice of Nature in the Forest,6 Adam, Eve.

Your Favourite Hero or Heroine, Domitian.

On the Benefits of Recreation,7 Edipus.

If Standing Stones Could Speak, Socrates.

Devotion to the Feast of the Indulgence of Portiuncula, Ajax.

The Dublin Metropolitan Police Sports at Ballsbridge, Homer.

Describe in Homely Anglian Monosyllables the Wreck of the Hesperus,8 Marcus Aurelius.

What Morals (if Any) can be drawn from Diarmuid and Grania?9 Alcibiades.

Do you Approve of our Existing Parliamentary System?

Lucretius.

The Uses and Abuses of Insects, Noah.

A Visit to Guinness’s Brewery, Plato.

Clubs, Horace.

Advantages of the Penny Post, Isaac.

When is a Pun not a Pun?

Tiresias.

Is the Co-Education of Animus and Anima Wholly Desirable?1 Marius.

What Happened at Clontarf?

Diogenes.

Since our Brother Jonathan Signed the Pledge or Procne, Philomela.

The Meditations of Two Young Spinsters,2 Abraham.

Why we all Love our Little Lord Mayor, Nestor.

Hengler’s Circus Entertainment, Cincinnatus.

On Thrift,3 Leonidas.

The Kettle-Griffith-Moynihan Scheme for a New Electricity Supply, Jacob.

Travelling in the Olden Times,4 Theocritus.

American Lake Poetry, Joseph.

The Strangest Dream that was Ever Halfdreamt,5 Fabius.

Circumspection, Samson.

Our Allies the Hills, Cain.

Are Parnellites Just towards Henry Tudor?

Esop.

Tell a Friend in a Chatty Letter the Fable of the Grasshopper and the Ant,6 Prometheus.

Santa Claus, Lot.

The Shame of Slumdom, Pompeius Magnus, Miltiades Strategos.

The Roman Pontiffs and the Orthodox Churches,7 Solon.

The Thirty Hour Week, Castor, Pollux.

Compare the Fistic Styles of Jimmy Wilde and Jack Sharkey, Dionysius.

How to Understand the Deaf, Sappho.

Should Ladies learn Music or Mathematics?

Moses.

Glory be to Saint Patrick!

Job.

What is to be found in a Dusstheap, Catilina.

The Value of Circumstantial Evidence, Cadmus.

Should Spelling?

Ezekiel.

Outcasts in India, Solomon.

Collecting Pewter, Themistocles.

Eu,1 Vitellius.

Proper and Regular Diet Necessity For,2 Darius.

If You Do It Do It Now, Xenophon.

Delays are Dangerous.

Vitavite!

Gobble Anne: tea’s set, see’s eneugh!

Mox soonly will be in a split second per the chancellory of his exticker.

Mawmaw, luk, your beeeftay’s fizzin over!

Pantocracy.

Aun Bimutualism.

Do Interchangeaability.

Tri Naturality.

Car Superfetation.

Cush3 Stabimobilism.

Shay Periodicity.

Shockt Consummation.

Ockt Interpenetrativeness.

Ni Predicament.

Geg4 Balance of the factual by the theoric Boox and Coox, Amallagamated.

Their feed begins.

Kakaopoetic lippuddenies of the ungumptious.

Nightletter  With our best youlldied greedings to Pep and Memmy and the old folkers below and beyant, wishing them all very merry Incarnations in this land of the livvey and plenty of preprosperousness through all their coming new yonks from jake, jack and little sousoucie (the babes that mean too)   It may not or maybe a no concern of the Guinnesses but.

That the fright of his light in tribalbalbutience bides aback in the doom of the balk of the deaf but that the height of his life from a bride’s eye stammpunct is when a man that means a mountain barring his distance wades a lymph that plays the lazy winning she likes yet that pride that bogs the party begs the glory of a wake while the scheme is like your rumba round me garden, allatheses, with perhelps the prop of a prompt to them, was now or never, in Etheria Deserta as in Grander Suburbia, with Finnfannfawners, ruric or cospolite, for much or moment indispute.

Whyfor had they, it is Hiberio-Miletians and Argloe-Noremen, donated him, birth of an otion that was breeder to sweatoslaves, as mysterbolder, forced in their waste, and as for Ibdullin what of Himana, that their tolvtubular high fidelity daildialler, as modern as tomorrow afternoon and in appearance up to the minute (hearing that anybody in that ruad duchy of Wollinstown schemed to halve the wrong type of date), equipped with supershielded umbrella antennas for distancegetting and connected by the magnetic links of a Bellini-Tosti coupling system with a vitaltone speaker, capable of capturing skybuddies, harbour craft emittences, key clickings, vaticum cleaners, due to woman formed mobile or man made static, and bawling the whowle hamshack and wobble down in an eliminium sounds-pound so as to serve him up a melogoturny marygorauund, eclectrically filtered for allirish earths and ohmes.

This harmonic condenser enginium (the Mole) they caused to be worked from a magazine battery (called the Mimmim Bimbim, patent number 1132, Thorpetersen and Synds, Jomsborg, Selverbergen) which was tuned up by twintriodic singalvalvulous pipelines (lackslipping along as if their liffng deepunded on it) with a howdro-cephalous enlargement, a gain control of circumcentric megacycles, ranging from the antidulibnium onto the serostaatarean.

They finally caused, or most leastways brung it about somehows, (that) the pip of the lin (to) pinnatrate inthro an auricular forfickle (known as the Vakingfar Sleeper, monofractured by Piaras Ua Rhuamhaighaudhlug, tympan founder, Eustache Straight, Bauliaughacleeagh), a meatous conch culpable of cunduncing Naul and Santry and the forty routs of Corthy with the concertiums of the Brythyc Symmonds Guild, the Ropemakers Reunion, the Variagated Peddlars Barringoy Bnibrthirhd, the Askold Olegsonder Crowds of the O’Keef-Rosses and Rhosso-Keevers of Eastwoking, the Ligue of Yahooth o.s.v., so as to lall the bygone dozed they arborised around, up his corpular fruent and down his reuctionary buckling, hummer, enville and cstorrap (the man of Iren, thore’s Curlymane for you!

), lill the lubberendth of his otological life.

House of call is all their evenbreads though its cartomanse hallucinate like an erection in the night the mummery of whose deed, a lur of Nur, immerges a mirage in a merror, for it is where by muzzinmessed for one watthour, bilaws below, till time jings pleas, that host of a bottlefilled, the bulkily hulkwight, hunter’s pink of face, an orel orioled, is in on a bout to be unbulging an o’connell’s, the true one, all seethic, a luckybock, pledge of the stoup, whilom his canterberry bellseyes wink wickeding indtil the teller, oyne of an oustman in skull of skand.

Yet is it, this ale of man, for him, our hubuljoynted, just a tug and a fistful as for Culsen, the Patagoreyan, chieftain of chokanchuckers and his moyety joyant, under the foamer dispensation when he pullupped the turfeycork by the greats of gobble out of Lougk Neagk.

When, pressures be to our hoary frother, the pop gave his sullen bulletaction and, bilge, sled a movement of catharic emulsipotion down the sloppery slide of a slaunty to tilted lift-ye-landsmen.

Allamin.

Which in the ambit of its orbit heaved a sink her sailer alongside of a drink her drainer from the basses brothers, those two they-got-theres.

It was long after once there was a lealand in the luffing ore it was less after lives thor a toyler in the tawn at all ohr it was note before he drew out the moddle of Kersse by jerkin his dressing but and or it was not before athwartships he buttonhaled the Norweeger’s capstan.

So he sought with the lobestir claw of his propencil the clue of the wickser in his ear.

O, lord of the barrels, comer forth from Anow (I have not mislaid the key of Efas-Taem), O, Ana, bright lady, comer forth from Thenanow (I have not left temptation in the path of the sweeper of the threshold), O!

But first, strongbowth, they would deal death to a drinking.

Link of a leadder, dubble in it, slake your thirdst thoughts awake with it.

Our svalves are svalves aroon!

We rescue thee, O Baass, from the damp earth and honour thee, O Connibell, with mouth burial!

So was done, neat and trig.

Up draught and whet them!

Then sagd he to the ship’s husband in his translatentic norjankeltian: Hwere can a ketch or hook alive a suit and sowterkins?

Soot!

sayd the ship’s husband, knowing the language, Here is tayleren.

Ashe and Whitehead, closechop, successor to.

Ahorror, he sayd, canting around to that beddest his friend, the tayler, for finixed coulpure, chunk pulley muchy chink topside numpa one sellafella, fake an capstan make and shoot!

Manning to sayle of cloths for his lady her master whose to be precised of a peer of trouders under the pattern of a cassack.

Let me prove, I pray thee, but this once, sazd Mengarments, saving the mouthbrand from his fire-pool.

He spit in his faist (beggin): he tape the raw baste (paddin): he planked his pledge (as dib is a dab): and he tog his fringe sleeve (buthock, lad, fur whale).

Alloy for allay and this toolth for that soolth.

Lick it and like it.

A barter, a parter.

And plenty good enough, neighbour Norreys, every bit and grain.

And the ship’s husband brokecurst after him to hail the lugger.

Stolp, tief, stolp, come bag to Moy Eireann!

And the Norweeger’s capstan swaradeed, some blowfish out of schooling.

All lykkehud!

Below taiyor he ikan heavin sets.

But they broken waters and they made whole waters at they surfered bark to the lots of his vauce.

And aweigh he yankered on the Norgean run so that seven sailend sonnenrounders was he breastbare to the brinabath, where bottoms out has fatthoms full, fram Franz José Land til Cabo Thormendoso, evenstarde and risingsoon.

Up the Rivor Janueiry and down the Golfe Desombres.

Farety days and fearty nights.

Enjooy yourself, O maremen!

And the tides made, veer and haul, and the times marred, rear and fall, and, holey bucket, dinned he raign!

— Hump!

Hump!

bassed the broaders-in-laugh with a quick piddysnip that wee halfbit a second.

— I will do that, sazd Kersse, mainingstaying the rigout for her wife’s lairdship.

Nett sew?

they hunched back at the earpicker.

But old sporty, as endth lord, in ryehouse reigner, he nought feared crimp or cramp of shore sharks, plotsome to getsome.

It was whol niet godthaab of errol Loritz off his Cape of Good Howthe and his trippertrice, loretta lady, a maomette to his monetone, with twy twy twinky her stone hairpins, only not, if not, a queen of Prancess their telling tabled who was for his seeming a casket through the heavenly, nay, the heart of the sweet (had he hows would he keep her as niece as a fiddle!)

but in the mealtub it was wohl yeas sputsbargain what, rarer of recent, an occasional conformity, he, with Muggleton Muckers, alwagers allalong most certainly allowed, as pilgrimager’s grace to petitionists of right, of the three blend cupstoomerries with their customed spirits, the Gill gob, the Burkeley bump, the Wallisey wanderlook, having their ceilidhe gailydhe in his shaunty irish.

Group drinkards maaks grope thinkards or how reads rotary, jewr of a chrestend, respecting the otherdogs churchees.

So long plubs will be plebs but plabs by low frequency amplification may later agree to have another.

For the people of the shed are the sure ads of all quorum.

Lorimers and leathersellers, skinners and salters, pewterers and paperstainers, parishclerks, fletcherbowyers, girdlers, mercers, cordwainers and first, and not last, the weavers.

Our library he is hoping to ye public.

Innholder, upholder.

— Sets on sayfohrt!

Go to it, agitator!

they bassabosuned over the flowre of their hoose.

Godeown moseys and skeep thy beeble bee!

— I will do that, acordial, by mine hand, sazd Kersse, piece Cod, and in the flap of a jacket, ructified after his nap of a blankit their o’cousin, as sober as the ship’s husband he was one my godfather when he told me saw whileupon I am now well and jurily sagasfide after the boonamorse that the widower, according to rider, following pnomoneya, he is consistently blown to Adams.

So help me boyg who keeps the book!

Whereofter behest his suzerain law the Thing and the pilsener had the baar, Recknar Jarl (they called him Roguenor, Irl call him), still passing the change-a-pennies, pengeypigses, a several sort of coyne in livery, pushed their whisper in his hairing (seemed some shipshep’s sottovoxed stalement, a dearagadye, to harvey anyone doing duty for duff point of dockland composs), the same to the good, ind ast velut discharge after which he had ex-emptied more than orphan for the ballast of his nurtural life.

And threw a cast.

A few pigses and hare you are and no chicking, tribune’s tribute, if you guess mimic miening.

Meanly, in his lewdbrogue, take your tyou coppels token with this good sixtric from mine runbag of juwels.

Nummus that is summus that is toptip that is bottomlay that is Twomeys that is Digges that is Heres.

In the frameshape of hard mettles.

For we all would fain make glories.

It is minely well mint.

Thus as count the costs of liquid courage, a bullyon gauger, stowed stivers pengapung in bulk in hold (fight, great finnence!

brayvoh, little bratton!)

keen his kenning, the queriest of the crew, with that fellow fearing for his own misshapes, should he be himpself namesakely a foully fallen dissentant from the peripulator, sued towerds Meade-Reid and Lynn-Duff, rubbing the hodden son of a pookal, leaden be light, lather be dry and it be drownd on all the ealsth beside, how the camel and where the deiffel or when the finicking or why the funicking or who caused the scaffolding to be first removed you give orders, babeling, were their reidey meade answer when on the cutey (the corespondent) in conflict of evidence drew a kick at witness but (missed) and for whom in the dyfflun’s kiddy removed the planks they were wanted, boob.

Bump!

Bothallchoractorschumminaroundgansumuminarumdrumstrumtr uminahumptadumpwaultopoofoolooderamaunsturnup!

— Did do a dive, aped one.

— Propellopalombarouter, based two.

— Rutsch is for rutterman ramping his roe, seed three.

Where the muddies scrimm ball.

Bimbim bimbim.

And the maidies scream all.

Himhim himhim.

