O, I see and see!

In the ink of his sweat he will find it yet.

What Gipsy Devereux vowed to Lylian and why the elm and how the stone.

You never may know in the preterite all perhaps that you would not believe that you ever even saw to be about to.

Perhaps.

But they are two very blizky little portereens after their bredscrums, Jerkoff and Eatsup, as for my part opinion indeed.

They would be born so, costarred, puck and prig, the maryboy at the Donnybrook Fair, the godolphinglad in the Hoey’s Court.

How frilled one shall be as at taledold of Formio and Cigalette!

What folly innocents!

Theirs what pep of puppyhood!

Both barmhearts shall become yeastcake by their brackfest.

I will to leave my copperwise blessing between the pair of them, for rosengorge, for greenafang.

Blech and tin soldies, weals in a sniffbox.

Som’s wholed, all’s parted.

Weeping shouldst not thou be when man falls but that divine scheming ever adoring be.

So you be either man or mouse and you be neither fish nor flesh.

Take.

And take.

Vellicate nijche!

Be ones as wes for gives for gets now the hour of passings sembles quick with quelled.

Adieu, soft adieu, for these nice presents, kerryjevin!

Still tosorrow!

Jeminy!

What is the view which now takes up a second position of discordance, tell it, please?

Mark!

You notice it in that rereway because the male entail partially eclipses the femecovert.

It is so called for its discord the meseedo.

Do you ever heard the story about Helius Croesus, that white and gold Elephant in our zoopark?

You astonish me by it.

Is it not that we are commanding from fullback, woman permitting, a profusely fine birdseye view from beauhind this park?

Finn his park has been much the admiration of all the stranger ones, greekish and romanos, who arrive to here.

The straight road down the centre (see relief map) bisexes the park which is said to be the largest of his kind in the world.

On the right prominence confronts you the handsome vinesregent’s lodge while, turning to the other supreme piece of cheeks, exactly opposite, you are confounded by the equally handsome chief sacristary’s residence.

Around is a little amiably tufted and man is cheered when he bewonders through the boskage how the nature in all frisko is enlivened by gentlemen’s seats.

Here are heavysupperdaddies’ housings for hundredaires of our super thin thousand.

By gum, but you have resin!

Of these tallworts are yielded out juices for jointoils and pappasses for paynims.

Listeneth!

’Tis a tree story.

How olave, that firile, was aplantad in her liveside.

How tannoboom held tonobloom.

How rood in norlandes.

The black and blue marks athwart the weald, which now barely is so stripped, indicate the prepresence of sylvious beltings.

Therewithal shady rides lend themselves out to rustic cavalries.

In yonder valley, too, stays mountain sprite.

Any pretty dears are to be caught inside but it is a bad pities of the plain.

A scarlet pimparnell now mules the mound where anciently first murders were wanted to take root.

By feud fionghalian.

Talking tree and sinning stone stay on either hand.

Hystorical leavesdroppings may also be garnered up with Sir Shamus Swiftpatrick, archfieldchaplain of Saint Lucan’s.

How familiar it is to see all those interesting advenements with one anaked’s eyes!

Is all?

Yet not.

At the bodom fundus of this royal park, which, with tvigate shyasian gardeenen, is open to the public till night at late, so well the sissastrides so will the pederestians, do not fail to point to yourself a depression called Holl Hollow.

It is often quite guttergloomering in our duol and gives wankyrious thoughts to the head but the banders of the pentapolitan poleetsfurcers bassoons into it on windy Woodensdays their wellbooming wolvertones.

Ulvos!

Ulvos!

Whervolk dorst ttou begin to tremble by our moving pictures at this moment when I am to place my hand of our true friendshapes upon thy knee to mark well what I say?

Throu shayest who?

In Amsterdam there lived a … But how?

You are tremblotting, you retchad, like a verry jerry!

Niet?

Will you a guineeser?

Gaij beutel of staub?

To feel, you!

Yes, how it tremules, the timid!!

Vortigern, ah Gortigern!

Overlord of Mercia!

Or doth brainskin flinchgreef?

Stemming!

What boyazhness!

Sole shadow shows.

’Tis jest jibberweek’s joke.

It must have stole!

O, keve silence, both!

Putshameyu!

I have heard her voice somewhere else’s before me in these ears still that now are for mine.

Let op.

Slew musies.

Thunner in the eire.

You were dreamend, dear!

The pawdrag?

The fawthrig?

Shoo!

Hear are no phanthares in the room at all, avikkeen.

No bad bold fauthern, dear one.

Opop opop capallo, muy malinchily malchick!

Gothgorodfather godown fallaway tomollow the lucky load to Lublin for make his thoroughbass grossman’s bigness.

Take that two piecee big slap slap bold hinty bottomside pap pap pappa!

— Li ne dormis?

— S!

Malbone dormas.

— Kia li krias nokte?

— Parolas infanetes.

S!

Sonly all in your imagination, dim!

Poor little brittle magicnations, dim of mind!

Shoo to me now, dear!

Shoom of me!

While elvery stream winds eeling on for to keep this barrel of bounty rolling and the nightmail afar-from morning nears.

When you’re coaching through Lucalizod, on the sulphur spa to visit, it’s safer to hit than miss it.

Stop at his inn!

The hammers are telling the cobbles, the pickts are hacking the saxums, it’s snugger to burrow abed than ballot on broadway.

Tuck in your blank!

For it’s race pound race the hosties rear all roads to ruin and layers by lifetimes laid down riches from poormen.

Cried onions to chip, saltpetre to strew, gallpitch to drink, stonebread to break, but it’s bully to gulp good blueberry pudding.

Doze in your warmth!

While the elves in the moonbeams, feeling why, will keep my lilygem gently gleaming.

In the sleepingchambers.

The court to go into half morning.

The four seneschals with their palfrey to be there now, all balaaming, in their sellaboutes and sharping up their peniscils.

The boufeither Soakersoon at holdup tentstickor.

The swabsister Katya to have duntalking and to keep shakenin dowan her droghedars.

Those twelve chief barons to stand by duedesmally with their folded arums and put down all excursions and false alarums and after that to go back now to their runameat farums and recompile their magnum chartarums with the width of the road between them and all harrums.

The maidbrides all, in favours gay, to strew sleety cinders on their falling hair and for wouldbe joybells to ring sadly ringless hands.

The dame dowager to stay kneeled down how she is, as first mutherer with cord in coil.

The two princes of the tower royal, daulphin and deevlin, to lie how they are without to see.

The dame dowager’s duffgerent to present wappon, blade drawn to the full, and about wheel without to be seen of them.

The infanta Isabella from her coign to do obeisance toward the duffgerent, as first futherer with drawn brand.

Then the court to come into full morning.

Herein see ye fail not!

— Vidu, porkego!

Ili vi rigardas!

Returnu, porkego maldelikato!

Gauze off heaven!

Vision.

Then.

O, pluxty suddly, the sight entrancing!

Hummels!

That crag!

Those hullocks!

O Sire!

So be accident occur is not going to commence!

What have you therefore?

Fear you the donkers?

Of roovers?

I fear lest we have lost ours (non grant it!)

respecting these wildy parts.

How is hit finister!

How shagsome all and beastful!

What do you show on?

I show because I must see before my misfortune so a stark pointingpole.

Lord of ladders, what for lungitube!

Can you read the verst legend hereon?

I am hather of the missed.

Areed!

To the Dunleary Obelisk via the Rock vhat myles knox furlongs: to the General’s Post Office howsands of patience: to the Wellington Memorial half a league wrongwards: to Sara’s Bridge good hunter and nine to meet her: to the Point, one yeoman’s yard.

He, he, he!

At what do you leer, a setting up?

With a such unbuttoned belly?

Two cascades?

I leer (O my big, O my bog, O my bigbagbone!)

because I must see a buntingcap of so a pinky on the poink!

It is for a true glover’s greeting and many burgesses by us, greats and grosses, uses to pink it in this way at tet-a-tet.

For long has it been effigy of standard royal when broken on roofstaff which to the gunnings shall cast welcome from Courtmilits’ Fortress, umptydum dumptydum.

Bemark you these hangovers, those streamer fields!

His influx.

Do you not have heard that, the queen lying abroad from fury of the gales (meekname mocktitles her Nan Nan Nanetta), her liege of lateenth dignisties shall come on tomorrow, Michaelmas, mellems the third and fourth of the clock, thereto all the king’s aussies and all their kin’s men, knechts tramplers and cavalcaders, led of herald graycloak, Ulaf Goldarskield?

Dog!

Dog!

Her lofts will be loosed for her and their tumblers broodcast.

A progress shall be made in walk, ney?

I trow it well, and uge by uge.

He shall come, sidesmen accostant, by aryan Jubilarian and or brigadier-general Nolan or and buccaneer-admiral Browne, with—who can doubt it?—his golden beagles and his white elkox terriers for a hunting on our littlego illcome faxes.

In blue and buff of Beaufort the hunt shall make their bay.

It is poblesse noblige.

Ommes will grin through collars when each rides other’s ass.

Me Eccls!

What catskillings overall!

What popping out of guillotined widows!

Quick time!

Beware of waiting!

Squintina plies favours on us from her rushfrail and Zosimus, the crowder, in his surcoat, sues us with souftwister.

Apart we!

Here are gantlets.

I believe it, by Plentifolks Mixymost!

Yet if I durst to express the hope how I might be able to be present.

All these peeplers entrammed and detrained on bikeygels and troykakyls and those puny farting little solitires!

Tollacre, tollacre!

Polo north will beseem Sibernian and Plein Pelouta will behowl ne yerking at lawncastrum ne ghimbelling on guelflinks.

Mauser Misma shall cease to stretch her and come abroad for what the blinkins is to be seen.

A ruber, a rancher, a fullvide, a veridust, and as ceredulous behind as he was before behind a damson of a sloe cooch.

Mbv!

The annamation of evabusies, the livlianess of her laughings, such as a plurity of bells!

Have peacience, pray you!

Place to dames!

Even the Lady Victoria Landauner will leave to loll and parasol, all giddied into gushgasps with her dickey standing.

Britus and Gothius shall no more joustle for that sonneplace but mark one autonement when, with si so silent, Cloudia Aiduolcis, good and dewed up, shall let fall, yes no, yet now, a rain.

Muchsias grapcias!

It is howsweet from her, the wispful, and they ere soon seen swopsib so a sautril as a meise.

Its ist not the tear on this movent sped.

Tix sixpounce!

Poum!

Hool poll the bull?

Fool pay the bill.

Becups a can full.

Peal, pull the bell!

Still sayeme of ceremonies.

O, much much more!

So pleaseyour!

