
Margareena she’s very fond of Burrus but (alick and alack!)

she velly fond of chee.

(The important influence exercised on everything by this eastasian import has not been till now fully flavoured, though we can comfortably taste it in this case.

I shall come back for a little more say farther on.)

A cleopatrician in her own right, she at once complicates the position, while Burrus and Caseous are contending for her misstery, by implicating herself with an elusive Antonius, a wop who would appear to hug a personal interest in refined chees of all chades at the same time as he wags an antomine art of being rude like the boor.

This Antonius-Burrus-Caseous grouptriad may be said to equate the qualis equivalent with the older socalled talis on talis one just as quaintly as in the hyperchemical economantarchy the tantum ergons irruminate the quantum urge so that eggs is to whey as whay is to zeed like your golfchild’s abe boob caddy.

(And, taking off sourstuffs and alkalike matters, I hope we can kill time to reach the salt because there’s some forceglass neutric assets bittering in the soldpewter for you to plump your pottage in.)

And this is why any simple strawbellied philadolphus of a fool you like to dress, an athemisthued lowtownian exleggest phratrisight, may be awfully green to one side of him and fruitfully blue on the other, which will not screen him however from appealing to my gropesarching eyes, through the strongholes of my acropoll, as a boosted blasted bleating blatant bloaten blasphorus blesphorous idiot who kennat tail a bomb from a painapple when he steals one and wonnot psing his psalmon with the cong for gregational purposes with the canting crew!

No!

Topsman, to your Tarpeia!

This thing, Minster Abby, is nefand.

The thundering legion has stormed Olymp that it end.

Twelve tabular times till now have I edicted it.

Merus Genius to Careous Caseous!

Moriture, te salutat!

My phemous themis’ race is run, so let Demoncracy take the highmost!

(Abraham Tripier.

Those old diligences are quite out of date.

Read next answer.)

I’ll now beat you so lon.

(Bigtempered.

Why not take direct action?

See previous reply.)

My unchanging Word is sacred.

The Word is my Wife, to exspouse and expound, to vend and to velnerate, and may the curlews crown our nuptias!

Till Breath us depart!

Wamen.

Beware would you change with my years!

Be as young as your grandmother!

The ring man in the rong shop but the rite words by the rote order!

Ubi lingua nuncupassit, ibi fas!

Adversus hostem semper sac!

She that will not feel my fulmoon let her peel to thee as the hoyden and the impudent!

That mon that hoth no moses in his sole nor is not awed by conquists of word’s law, who never with humself was fed and leaves his soil to lave his head, when his hope’s in his highlows from whisking his woe, if he came to my preach, a proud pursebroken ranger, when the heavens were welling the spite of their spout, to beg for a bite in our bark Noisdanger, would meself and Jaffe Jeffet, four-in-hand, foot him out?—ay!—were he my own breastbrother, my doubled width love and my singlebiassed hate, were we bread by the same fire and signed with the same salt, had we tapped from the same master and robbed of the same till, were we tucked in the one bed and bit by the one flea, homogallant and hemycapnoise, bum and dingo, jack by churl, though it broke my heart to pray it, still I’d fear I’d hate to say…!

12.

Sacer esto?

ANSWER: Semus sumus!

Shem is as short for Shemus as Jem is joky for Jacob.

A few toughnecks are still getatable who pretend that aboriginally he was of respectable stemming (he was an outlex between the lines of Ragonar Blaubarb and Horrild Hairwire, and an inlaw to Capt.

the Hon.

and Rev.

Mr Bbyrdwood de Trop Bloggg was among his most distant connections) but every honest to goodness man in the land of the space of today knows that his back life will not stand being written about in black and white.

Putting truth and untruth together a shot may be made at what this hybrid actually was like to look at.

Shem’s bodily getup, it seems, included: an adze of a skull, an eighth of a larkseye, the whole of a nose, one numb arm up a sleeve, fortytwo hairs off his uncrown, eighteen to his mock lip, a trio of barbels from his megageg chin (sowman’s son!

), the wrong shoulder higher than the right, all ears, an artificial tongue with a natural curl, not a foot to stand on, a handful of thumbs, a blind stomach, a deaf heart, a loose liver, two fifths of two buttocks, one gleetsteen avoirdupoider for him, a manroot of all evil, a salmonkelt’s thinskin, eelsblood in his cold toes, a bladder tristended—so much so that young Master Shemmy on his very first debouch at the very dawn of protohistory seeing himself such and such, when playing with thistlewords in their nursery garden, Griefotrofio, at Phig Streat 111, Shuvlin, Old Hoeland (would we go back there now for sounds, pillings and sense?

would we now for annas and annas?

would we for fullscore eight and a liretta?

for twelve blocks one bob?

for four testers one groat?

not for a dinar!

not for jo!

), dictited to all his little brothron and sweestureens the first riddle of the universe: asking, When is a man not a man?

telling them take their time, yungfries, and wait till the tide stops (for from the first his day was a fortnight) and offering the prize of a bittersweet crab, a little present from the past (for their copper age was as yet unminted), to the winner.

One said when the heavens are quakers, a second said when Bohemeand lips, a third said when he, no, when, hold hard a jiffy, when he is a gnawstick and detarmined to, the next one said when the angel of death kicks the bucket of life, still another said when the wine’s at witsends, and still another when lovely wooman stoops to conk him, one of the littliest said me, me, Sem, when pappa papared the harbour, one of the wittliest said when he yeat ye abblokooken and he zmear hezelf zo zhooken, still one said when you are old I’m grey fall full wi’ sleep, and still another when wee deader walkner, and another when he is just only after having being semisized, another when yea he hath no mananas, and one when dose pigs they begin now that they will flies up intil the looft.

All were wrong, so Shem himself, the doctator, took the cake, the correct solution being—all give it up?

—: When he is a—yours till the rending of the rocks—Sham.

Shem was a sham and a low sham and his lowness creeped out first via foodstuffs.

So low was he that he preferred Gibsen’s teatime salmon tinned, as inexpensive as pleasing, to the plumpest roeheavy lax or the friskiest parr or smolt troutlet that ever was gaffed between Leixlip and Island Bridge and many was the time he repeated in his botulism that no junglegrown pineapple ever smacked like the whoppers you shook out of Ananias’ cans, Findlater and Gladstone’s, Corner House, Englend.

None of your inchthick blueblooded Balaclava fried-at-beliefstakes or juicejelly legs of the Grex’s molten mutton or greasily gristly grunters’ goupons or slice upon slab of luscious goosebosom with lump after load of plumpudding stuffing all aswim in a swamp of bogoak gravy for that greekenhearted yude!

Rosbif of Old Zealand?

He could not attouch it.

See what happens when your somatophage merman takes his fancy to our virgitarian swan?

He even ran away with hunself and became a farsoonerite, saying he would far sooner muddle through the hash of lentils in Europe than meddle with Irrland’s split little pea.

Once when among those rebels in a state of hopelessly helpless intoxication the piscivore strove to lift a czitround peel to either nostril, hiccupping, apparently impromptued by the hibat he had with his glottal stop, that he kukkakould flowrish for ever by the smell, as the czitr, as the kcedron, like a scedar, of the founts, on mountains, with lemon on, of Lebanon.

O, the lowness of him was beneath all up to that sunk to!

No likedbylike firewater or firstserved firstshot or gulletburn gin or honest brewbarrett beer either.

O dear no!

Instead the tragic jester sobbed himself wheywhingingly sick of life on some sort of a rhubarbarous maundarin yellagreen funkleblue windigut diodying applejack squeezed from sour grape-fruice and, to hear him twixt his sedimental cupslips when he had gulfed down mmmmuch too mmmmany gourds of it retching off to his almost as low withswillers, who always knew notwithstanding when they had had enough and were rightly indignant at the wretch’s hospitality when they found to their horror they could not carry another drop, it came straight from the noble white fat, jo, openwide sat, jo jo, her why hide that, jo jo jo, the winevat, of the most serene magyarsty az archdiochesse (if she’s a duck she’s a douches, and when she has a feherbour snot her fault, nowisit?

), artstouchups, funny you’re grinning at, fancy you’re in her yet, Fanny Urinia.

Ain’t that swell, hey?

Peamengro!

Talk about lowness!

Any dog’s quantity of it visibly oozed out thickly from this dirty little blacking beetle, for the very fourth snap the Tulloch-Turnbull girl with her coldblood kodak shotted the as yet unremuneranded national apostate, who was cowardly gun and camera shy, taking what he fondly thought was a short cut to Caer Fere, Soak Amerigas, vias the shipsteam Pridewin, after having buried a hatchet not so long before, by the wrong goods exeunt, nummer desh ta tren, into Patatapapaveri’s, fruiterers and musical florists, with his Ciaho, chavi!

Sar shin, shillipen?, she knew the vice out of bridewell was a bad fast man by his walk on the spot.

[Johns is a different butcher’s.

Next place you are up town pay him a visit.

Or better still, come tobuy.

You will enjoy cattlemen’s spring meat.

Johns is now quite divorced from baking.

Fattens, kills, flays, hangs, draws, quarters and pieces.

Feel his lambs!

Ex!

Feel how sheap!

Exex!

His liver too is great value, a spatiality!

Exexex!

COMMUNICATED.]

Around that time, moravar, one generally hoped, for luvvomony, or at any rate suspected among morticians that he would early turn out badly, develop hereditary pulmonary T.B.

and do for himself one dandy time.

Nay, of a pelting night blanketed creditors, hearing a coarse song and splash off Eden Quay, sighed and rolled over, sure all was up, but, though he fell heavily and locally into debit, not even then could such an antinomian be true to type.

He would not put fire to his cerebrum; he would not throw himself in Liffey; he would not explaud himself with pneumantics; he refused to saffrocake himself with a sod.

With the foreign devil’s leave the fraidborn fraud diddled even death.

Anzi, cabled (but shaking the worth out of his maulth: Guardacosta leporello?

Szasas Kraicz!)

from his Nearapoblican asylum to his jonathan for a brother: Here tokay, gone tomorry, we’re spluched, do something, Fireless.

And had answer: Inconvenient, David.

You see, chaps, it will trickle out, freaksily of course, but the tom and the shorty of it is: he was in his bardic memory low.

All the time he kept on treasuring with condign satisfaction each and every crumb of trektalk, covetous of his neighbour’s word, and if ever, during a Munda conver-sazione commoted in the nation’s interest, delicate tippits were thrown out to him touching his evil courses by some wellwishers vainly pleading by scriptural arguments with the opprobrious papist about what about trying to brace up for the kidos of the thing, Scally wag, and be a men insteed of a dem scrounger, dish it all, such as: Pray, what is the meaning, sousy, of that continental expression, if you ever came acrux it, we think it is a word transpiciously like canaille?

or: Did you anywhere, kennel, on your gullible’s travels or during your rural troubadouring happen to stumble upon a certain gay young nobleman whimpering to the name of Low Swine who always addresses women out of the one corner of his mouth, lives on loans and is furtivefree yours of age?

without one sign of haste, like the supreme prig he was, and not a bit sorry, he would pull a vacant landlubber’s face, root with earwaker’s pensile in the outer of his lauscher and then, lisping, the prattlepate parnella, to kill time, and swatting his deadbest to think what under the canopies of Jansens Chrest would any decent son of an Albiogenselman who had bin to an university think, let a lent hit a hint and begin to tell all the intelligentsia admitted to that tamileasy samtalaisy conclamazzione (since, still and before panesthetic physicians, lawyers merchant, belfry pollititians, agricolous manufraudurers, sacrestanes of the Pure River Society, philanthropicks lodging on as many boards round the peninsulounge at the same time as possible) the whole lifelong swrine story of his entire low cornaille existence, abusing his deceased ancestors wherever the sods were and one moment tarabooming great blunderguns (poh!)

about his farfamed fine Poppamore, Mr Humhum, whom history, climate and entertainment made the first of his sept and always up to debt, though Eavens ears ow many fines he faces, and another moment visanvierssas cruaching three jeers (pah!)

for his rotten little ghost of a Peppybeg, Mr Himmyshimmy, a blighty, a reeky, a lighty, a scrapy, a babbly, a ninny, dirty seventh among thieves and always bottom sawyer, till nowan knowed how howmely howme could be, giving unsolicited testimony on behalf of the absent, as glib as eaveswater, to those present (who meanwhile, with increasing lack of interest in his semantics, allowed various subconscious smickers to drivel slowly across their fichers), unconsciously explaining, for inkstands, with a meticulosity bordering on the insane, the various meanings of all the different foreign parts of speech he misused and cuttlefishing every lie unshrinkable about all the other people in the story, leaving out, of course, foreconsciously, the simple worf and plague and poison they had cornered him about until there was not a snoozer among them but was utterly undeceived in the heel of the reel by the recital of the rigmarole.

He went without saying that the cull disliked anything anyway approaching a plain straightforward standup or knockdown row and, as often as he was called in to umpire any octagonal argument among slangwhangers, the accomplished washout always used to rub shoulders with the last speaker and clasp shakers (the handtouch which is speech without words) and agree to every word as soon as half uttered: command me!

your servant, good, I revere you, how, my seer?

be drinking that!

quite truth, gratias, I’m yoush, see wha’m hearing?

also goods, please it, me sure?

be filling this!

quiso, you said it, apasafello, muchas grassyass, is there firing-on-me?

is their girlic-on-you?

to your good self, your sulphur: and then at once focuss his whole unbalanced attention upon the next octagonist who managed to catch a listener’s eye, asking and imploring him out of his piteous onewinker (hemoptysia diadumenos) whether there was anything in the world he could do to please him and to overflow his tumbletantaliser for him yet once more.

One hailcannon night (for his departure was attended by a heavy down-pour) as very recently as some thousand rains ago he was therefore treated with what closely resembled parsonal violence, being soggert all unsuspectingly through the deserted village of Tumblin-on-the-Leafy from Mr Vanhomrigh’s house at 81 bis Mabbot’s Mall as far as Green Patch beyond the brickfields of Salmon Pool by rival teams of slowspiers counter quick-limers who finally, as rahilly they had been deteened out rawther laetich, thought, busnis hits busnis, they had better be streaking for home after their Auborne-to-Auborne, with thanks for the pleasant evening, one and all disgustedly, instead of ruggering him back and awake, reconciled (though they were as jealous as could be cullions about all the truffes they had brought on him) to a friendship, fast and furious, which merely arose out of the noxious pervert’s perfect lowness.

Again there was a hope that people, looking on him with the contempt of the contemptibles, after first giving him a roll in the dirt might pity and forgive him, if properly deloused, but the pleb was born a Quicklow and sank alowing till he stank out of sight.

All Saints beat Belial!

Mickil Goals to Nichil!

Notpossible!

Already?

In Nowhere has yet the Whole World taken part of himself for his Wife; By Nowhom have Poorparents been sentenced to Worms, Blood and Thunder for Life; Not yet has the Emp up from Corpsica forced the Arth out of Engleterre; Not yet have the Sachsen and Judder on the Mound of a Word made Warre; Not yet Witchywitchy of Wench has struck Fire of his Heath from on Hoath; Not yet his Arcobaleine has forespoken Peacepeace upon Oath; Cleftfoot from Hempal must tumpel, Blamefool Gardener’s bound to fall; Broken Eggs will poursuive bitten Apples for where theirs is Will there’s his Wall; But the Mountstill frowns on the Millstream while their Madsons leap o’er his Bier And her Rillstrill liffs to His Murkesty all her daft Daughters laff in her Ear.

Till the four Shores of deff Tory Island let the douze dumm Eirewhiggs raille!

Hirp!

Hirp!

for their Missed Understandings!

chirps the Ballat of Perce Oreille.

O fortunous casualitas!

Lefty takes the cherubcake while Righto cloves his hoof.

Darkies never done tug that coon out to play non-excretory, antisexuous, misoxenetic, gaasy pure, flesh and blood games, written and composed and sung and danced by Niscemus Nemon, same as piccaninnies play all day, those old (none of your honeys and rubbers!)

games for fun and element we used to play with Dina and old Joe kicking her behind and before and the yallow girl kicking him behind old Joe, games like Thom Thom the thonderman, Put the wind up the peeler, Hat in the ring, Prisson your pritchards and play withers team, Mikel on the luckypig, Nickel in the slot, Sheila Harnett and her cow, Adam and Ell, Humble bumble, Moggies on the wall, Twos and threes, American jump, Fox come out of your den, Broken bottles, Writing a letter to Punch, Tiptop is a sweetstore, Henressy Crump expolled, Postman’s knock, Are we fairlys represented?, Solomon silent reading, Appletree pearstone, I know a washerwoman, Hospitals, As I was walking, There is oneyone’s house in Dreamcolohour, Battle of Waterloo, Colours, Eggs in the bush, Habberdasherisher, Telling your dreams, What’s the time, Nap, Ducking mammy, Last man standing, Heali Baboon and the forky theagues, Fickleyes and futilears, Hand-married but once in my life and I’ll never commit such a sin agin, Zip cooney candy, Turkey in the straw, This is the way we sow the seed of a long and lusty morning, Hops of fun at Miliken’s make, I seen the toothbrush with Pat Farrell, Here’s the fat to graze the priest’s boots, When his steam was like a raimbrandt round MacGarvey.

Now it is notoriously known how on that surprisingly bludgeony Unity Sunday, when the grand germogall allstar bout was harrily the rage between our weltingtoms extraordinary and our pettythicks the marshalaisy and Irish eyes of welcome were smiling daggers down their backs, when the roth vice and blause met the noyr blank and rogues and the grim white and cold bet the black fighting tans, categorically unimperatived by the maxims, rank funk getting the better of him the scut in a bad fit of pyjamas fled like a leveret for his bare lives to Talviland, ahone ahaza, pursued by the scented curses of all the village belles and, without having struck one blow (pig stole on him was lust he lagging it was becaused dust he shook), kushykorked himself up tight in his inkbattle house, badly the worse for boosegas, there to stay in afar for the life, where, as there was not a moment to be lost, after he had boxed a round with his fortepiano till he was whole bamp him bach and bump him blues, he collapsed carefully under a bedtick from Schwitzer’s, his face enveloped into a dead warrior’s telemac, with a lullobaw’s somnbomnet and a whotwaterwottle at his feet, to stoke his energy of waiting, moaning feebly in monkmarian monotheme, but tarnal long and then a nation louder, while engaged in swallowing from a large ampullar, that his pawdry’s purgatory was more than a nigger bloke could bear, hemiparalysed by the tong warfare and all the shemozzle (Daily Maily, fullup lace!

Holy Maly, mothelup Joss!

), his cheeks and trousers changing colour every time a gat croaked.

How is that for low, laities and gentlenuns?

Why, dog of the Crostiguns, whole continents rang with this Kairokoiran lowness!

Sheols of houris in chems upon divans (revolted stellas vespertine among them) at a bare (O!)

mention of the scaly rybald exclaimed: Poisse!

But would anyone, short of a madhouse, believe it?

Neither of those clean little cherubum, Nero or Nobookishonester himself, ever nursed such a spoiled opinion of his monstrous marvellosity as did this mental and moral defective (here perhaps at the vanessance of his lownest) who was known to grognt rather than gunnard upon one occasion, while drinking heavily of spirits, to that interlocutor a latere and private privysuckatary he used to pal around with in the kavehazs, one Davy Browne-Nowlan, his heavenlaid twin (this hambone dogpoet pseudoed himself under the hangname he gave himself of Bethgelert), in the porchway of a gipsy’s bar (Shem always blaspheming, so holy writ, Billy, he would try, old Belly, and pay this one manjack congregant of his four soups every lass of nexmouth, Bolly, so sure as thair’s a tail on a commat, as a taste for a storik’s fortytooth, that is to stay, to listen out, ony twenny minnies moe, Bully, his Ballade Imaginaire, which was to be dubbed Wine, Woman and Waterclocks or How a Guy Finks and Fawkes When He Is Going Batty by Maistre Sheames de la Plume, some most dreadful stuff in a murderous mirrorhand) that he was awoopf (parn me!)

aware of no other shaggyspick, other Shakhisbeard, either prexactly unlike his polar andthisishis or procisely the seems as woops (parn!)

as what he fancied or guessed the sames as he was himself and that, greet scoot, duckings and thuggery, though he was foxed fux to fux like a bunnyboy rodger with all the teashop lionses of Lumdrum hivanhoesed up gagainst him, being a lapsis linquo with a ruvidubb shortartempa, bad cad dad fad sad mad nad vanhaty fear, the consciquenchers of casuality prepestered crusswords in postposition, scruff, scruffer, scruffrumurraimost andallthatsortofthing, if reams stood to reason and his lankalivline lasted he would wipe alley english spooker, multaphoniaksically spuking, off the face of the erse.

After the thorough fright he got that bloody Swithun’s day, though every doorpost in muchtried Lucalizod was smeared with generous erstborn gore and every free for all cobbleway slippery with the bloods of heroes crying to Welkins for others and noahs and culverts agush with tears of joy, our low waster never had the common baalamb’s pluck to stir out and about the compound while everyone else of the torchlit throng, slashers and sliced alike, mobbu on massa, waaded and baaded around, yampyam pampyam, chanting the Gillooly chorus from the Monster Book of Paltryattic Puetrie, O pura e pia bella!, in junk et sampam or in secular sinkalarum, heads up, on their bonafide avocations (the little folk creeping on all fours to their natural school treat but childishly gleeful when a stray whizzer sang out intermediately) and happy belongers to the fairer sex on their usual quest for higher things, but vying with Lady Smythe to avenge MacJobber, went stonestepping with their bickerstaffs on educated feet, plinkity plonk, across the sevenspan ponte dei colori set up over the slop after the war-to-end war by Messrs a charitable government, for the only once (Dia dose Finnados!)

he did take a tompip peepestrella through a threedraw eighteen-hawkspower durdicky telescoop, luminous to larbourd only like the lamps in Nassaustrass, out of his westernmost keyhole, spitting at the impenetrablum wetter (and it was porcoghastly that outumn), with an eachway hope in his shivering soul, as he prayed to the cloud Incertitude, of finding out for himself, on akkount of all the kules in Kroukaparka or oving to all the kodseoggs in Kalatavala, whether true conciliation was forging ahead or falling back after the celestious intemperance and, for Duvvelsache, why, with his see me see and his my see a corves and his fiskerfoskerfusker layen loves in meeingseeing, he got the charm of his optical life when he found himself (hic sunt lennones!)

at pointblank range blinking down the barrel of an irregular revolver of the bulldog with a purpose pattern handled by an unknown quarreler who, supposedly, had been told off to shade and shoot shy Shem should the shit show his shiny shnout out awhile to look facts in their face before being holed and creased (uprip and jack him!)

by six or a dozen of the gayboys.

What, para Saom Plaom, in the names of Deucalion and Pyrrha and the incensed privy and the licensed pantry gods and Stator and Victor and Kutt and Runn and the whole mesa redonda of Lorencao Otulass in convocacaon, was this disinterestingly low human type, this Calumnious Column of Cloaxity, this Bengalese Beacon of Biloxity, this Annamite Aper of Atroxity, really at, it will be precise to quarify, for he seems in a badbad case?

The answer, to do all the diddies in one dedal, would sound: from pulling himself on his most flavoured canal the huge chesthouse of his elders (the Popapreta, and some navico, navvies!)

he had flickered up and flinnered down into a drug and drunkery addict growing megalomane of a loose past.

This explains the litany of septuncial lettertrumpets, honorific, highpitched, erudite, neoclassical, which he so loved as patricianly to manuscribe after his name.

It would have diverted, if ever seen, the shuddersome spectacle of this semidemented zany amid the inspissated grime of his glaucous den making believe to read his usylessly unreadable Blue Book of Eccles, édition de ténèbres (even yet, sighs the Most Different Dr Pointdejeuk, authorised bowdler and censor, it can’t be repeated!

), turning over three sheets at a wind, telling himself delightedly, no espellor mor so, that every splurge on the vellum he blundered over was an aisling vision more gorgeous than the one before, t.i.t.s., a roseschelle cottage by the sea for nothing for ever, a ladies’ tryon hosiery raffe at liberty, a sewerful of guineagold wine with brancomonge padeiropie and sickcylinder oysters worth a billion a bite, an entire operahouse (there was to be stamping room only in the prompter’s loudbox and everthemore his queue kept swelling) of enthusiastic noblewomen flinging every coronetcrimsoned stitch they had off at his probscenium, one after the others, inamagoaded into ajustilloosing themselves, in their gaiety pantheomime, when, egad, sir, acordant to all acountstrick, he squealed the topsquall im Deal Lil Shemlockup Yellin (geewhiz, jew ear that far!

soap ewer!

loutgout of sabaous!

juice like a boyd!)

for fully five minutes, infinitely better than Baraton McGluckin, with a scrumptious cocked hat and three green, cheese and tangerine trimmity plumes on the righthandled side of his amarellous head, a coat macfarlane (the kerssest cut, you understand?

), a sponiard’s digger at his ribs (Alfaiate punxit), an azulblu blowsheet for his blousebosom blossom and a dean’s crozier that he won from Cardinal Lindundarri and Cardinal Carchingarri and Cardinal Loriotuli and Cardinal Occidentaccia (ah ho!)

in the dearby darby doubled for falling first over the hurdles, madam, in the odder hand, a.a.t.s.o.t.

But what with the murky light, the botchy print, the tattered cover, the jigjagged page, the fumbling fingers, the foxtrotting fleas, the lieabed lice, the scum on his tongue, the drop in his eye, the lump in his throat, the drink in his pottle, the itch in his palm, the wail of his wind, the grief from his nose, the dig in his ribs, the age of his arteries, the weight of his breath, the fog of his mindfag, the buzz in his braintree, the tic of his conscience, the height up his rage, the gush down his fundament, the fire in his gorge, the tickle of his tail, the bane in his bullugs, the squince in his suil, the rot in his eater, the ycho in his earer, the totters of his toes, the tetters on his tumtytum, the rats in his garret, the bats in his belfry, the budgerigars and bumbosolom beaubirds, the hullabaloo and the dust in his ears, since it took him a month to steal a march he was hardset to mumorise more than a word a week.

Hake’s haulin!

Hook’s fisk!

Can you beat it?

Whawe?

I say, can you bait it?

Was there ever heard of such lowdown blackguardism?

Positively it woollies one to think over it.

Yet the bumpersprinkler used to boast aloud alone to himself with a haccent on it when Mynfadher was a boer constructor and Hoy was a lexical student, parole, and corrected with the blackboard (trying to copy the stage Englesemen he broughts their house down on, shouting: Bravure, surr Chorles!

Letterpurfect!

Culossall, Loose Wallor!

Spache!)

how he had been toed out of all the schicker families of the Klondykers from Pioupioureich, Swabspays, the land of Nod, Shruggers’ Country, Pension Danubierhome and Barbaropolis, who had settled and stratified in the capital city after its hebdomodary metropoliarchialisation, as sunblistered, moonplastered, gory, wheedling, joviale, litcherous and full, ordered off the gorgeous premises in most cases on account of his smell which all the cookmaids eminently objected to as resembling the bombinubble puzzo that welled out of the pozzo.

Instead of chuthoring those model households plain wholesome pothooks (a thing he never possessed of his Nigerian own) what do you think Vulgariano did but study with stolen fruit how cutely to copy all their various styles of signature so as one day to utter an epical forged cheque on the public for his own private profit until, as just related, the Dustbin’s United Scullerymaids’ and Househelps’ Sorority, better known as Sluttery’s Mowlted Futt, turned him down and assisted nature by unitedly shoeing the source of annoyance out of the place altogether and taytotally in the heat of the moment, holding one another’s gonk (for no-one, hound or scrublady, not even the Turk, ungreekable in purscent of the armenable, dared whiff the polecat at close range) and making some pointopointing remarks as they done so at the prefects of the Sniffey, your honour, aboon the lyow why a stunk, mister.

[Jymes wishes to hear from wearers of abandoned female costumes, gratefully received, wadmel jumper, rather full pair of culottes and onthergarmenteries, to start city life together.

His jymes is out of job, would sit and write.

He has lately committed one of the then commandments but she will now assist.

Superior built, domestic, regular layer.

Also got the boot.

He appreciates it.

Copies.

ABORTISEMENT.]

One cannot even begin to post figure out a statuesquo ante as to how slow in reality the excommunicated Drumcondriac, nate Hamish, really was.

Who can say how many unsigned first copies of original masterworks, how many pseudostylic shamiana, how few or how many of the most venerated public impostures, how very many piously forged palimpsests, slipped in the first place by this morbid process from his pelagiarist pen?

Be that as it may, but for that light phantastic of his gnose’s glow as it slid lucifericiously within an inch of its page (he would touch at its from time to other, the red eye of his fear in saddishness, to ensign the colours by the beerlitz in his mathness and his educandees to outhue to themselves in the cries of girlglee: gember!

inkware!

chonchambre!

cinsero!

zinnzabar!

tincture and gin!)

Nibs never would have quilled a seriph to sheepskin.

By that rosy lampoon’s effuvious burning and with help of the simulchronic flash in his pann (a ghinee a ghirk he ghets there!)

he scrabbled and scratched and scriobbled and skrevened nameless shamelessness about everybody ever he met, even sharing a precipitation under the idlish tarriers’ umbrella of a showerproof wall, while all over and up and down the four margins of this rancid Shem stuff the evilsmeller (who was devoted to Uldfadar Sardanapalus) used to stipple endlessly inartistic portraits of himself in the act of reciting old Nichiabelli’s monolook interyerear Hanno o Nonanno, acce’l brubblemm’!

as, ser Autore, q.e.d., a heartbreakingly handsome young paolo with love lyrics for the goyls in his eyols, a plaintiff’s tanner vuice, a jucal inkome of one hundred and thirtytwo dranchmas per yard derived from Broken Hill stranded estate, Camebreech mannings, cutting a great dash in a brandnew two-guinea dress suit and a burled hogsford hired for a Furskay evenin merry pawty, anna loavely long pair of inky Italian moostarshes glistering with boric vaseline and frangipani.

Puh!

How unwhisperably so!

The house O’Shea or O’Shame, Quivapieno, known as the Haunted Inkbottle, no number Brimstone Walk, Asia in Ireland, as it was infested with the raps, with his penname SHUT sepiascraped on the doorplate and a blind of black sailcloth over its wan phwinshogue, in which the soulcon-tracted son of the secret cell groped through life at the expense of the taxpayers, dejected into day and night with jesuist bark and bitter bite, calico-hydrants of zolfor and scoppialamina by full and forty queasisanos, every day in everyone’s way more exceeding in violent abuse of self and others, was the worst, it is hoped, even in our western playboyish world for pure mousefarm filth.

You brag of your brass castle or your tyled house in bally-fermont?

Niggs, niggs and niggs again!

For this was a stinksome inkenstink, quite puzzonal to the wrotter.

Smatterafact, Angles oftanon browsing there thought not Edam reeked more rare.

My wud!

The warped flooring of the lair and soundconducting walls thereof, to say nothing of the uprights and imposts, were persianly literatured with burst loveletters, telltale stories, stickyback snaps, doubtful eggshells, bouchers, flints, borers, puffers, amygdaloid almonds, rindless raisins, alphybettyformed verbage, vivlical viasses, ompiter dictas, visus umbique, ahems and ahahs, ineffble tries at speech unasyllabled, you owe mes, eyoldhyms, fluefoul smut, fallen lucifers, vestas which had served, showered ornaments, borrowed brogues, reversible jackets, blackeye lenses, family jars, falsehair shirts, Godforsaken scapulars, neverworn breeches, cutthroat ties, counterfeit franks, best intentions, curried notes, upset latten tintacks, unused mill and stumbling stones, twisted quills, painful digests, magnifying wineglasses, solid objects cast at goblins, once current puns, quashed quotatoes, messes of mottage, unquestionable issue papers, seedy ejaculations, limerick damns, crocodile tears, spilt ink, blasphematory spits, stale chestnuts, schoolgirls’, young ladies’, milkmaids’, washerwomen’s, shopkeepers’ wives’, merry widows’, ex nuns’, vice abbesses’, pro virgins’, super whores’, silent sisters’, Charleys’ aunts’, grandmothers’, mothers-in-laws’, fostermothers’, godmothers’ garters, tress clippings from right, lift and cintrum, worms of snot, toothsome pickings, cans of Swiss condensed bilk, highbrow lotions, kisses from the antipodes, presents from pickpockets, borrowed plumes, relaxable handgrips, princess promises, lees of whine, deoxodised carbons, broken wafers, unloosed shoe latchets, convertible collars, diviliouker doffers, crooked strait waistcoats, fresh horrors from Hades, globules of mercury, undeleted glete, glass eyes for an eye, gloss teeth for a tooth, war moans, special sighs, longsufferings of long-standing, ahs ohs ouis sis jas jos gias neys thaws sos, yeses and yeses and yeses, to which, if one has the stomach to add the breakages, upheavals, distortions, inversions, of all this chambermade music, one stands, given a grain of good-will, a fair chance of actually seeing the whirling dervish, Tumult, son of Thunder, selfexiled in upon his ego, a nightlong a shaking betwixtween white or reddr hawrors, noondayterrorised to skin and bone by an ineluctable phantom (may the Shaper have mersery on him!

), writing the mystery of himself in furniture.

Of course our low hero was a selfvaleter by choice of need so up he got up whatever is meant by a Stourbridge clay kitchenette and lithargogalenu fowlhouse for the sake of akes (the umpple does not fall very far from the dumpertree) which the moromelodious jigsmith, in defiance of the Uncontrollable Birth Preservativation (Game and Poultry) Act, playing lallaryrook cookerynook, by the dodginess of his lentern, brooled and cocked and potched in an athanor, whites and yolks and yilks and whotes to the frulling fredonnance of Mas blanca que la blanca hermana and Amarilla, muy bien, with cinnamon and locusts and wild beeswax and liquorice and Carrageen moss and blaster of Barry’s and Asther’s mess and Huster’s micture and Yellownan’s embrocation and Pinkingtone’s patty and stardust and sinner’s tears, acuredent to Sharadan’s Art of Panning, chanting, for all regale to the like of the legs he left behind with Litty fun Letty fan Leven, his cantraps of fermented words, abracadabra calubra culorum (his oewfs à la Madame Gabrielle de l’Eglise, his avgs à la Mistress B. de B. Meinfeldes, his eiers Usquadmala à la pomme de ciel, his uoves, oves and uves à la Sulphate de Soude, his ochiuri sowtay sowmonay à la Monseigneur, his souffosion of oogs with somekat on toyast à la Mère Puard, his Poggadovies alla Fenella, his Frideggs à la Tricarême), in what was meant for a closet.

(Ah ho!
