
And still nowanights and by nights of yore do all bold floras of the field to their shyfaun lovers say only: Cull me ere I wilt to thee!

And, but a little later: Pluck me whilst I blush!

Well may they wilt, marry, and profusedly blush, be troth!

For that saying is as old as the howitts.

Lave a whale a while in a whillbarrow (isn’t it the truath I’m tallin ye?)

to have fins and flippers that shimmy and shake.

Tim Timmycan timped hir, tampting Tam.

Fleppety!

Flippety!

Fleapow!

Hop!

In the name of Anem this carl on the kopje in pelted thongs a parth a lone who the joebiggar be he?

Forshapen his pigmaid hoagshead, shroonk his plodsfoot.

He hath locktoes, this shortshins, and, Obeold that’s pectoral, his mammamuscles!

Most mousterious!

It is slaking nuncheon out of some thing’s brain pan.

Meseemeth a dragonsman.

He is almonthst on the kief fief by here, is Comestipple Sacksun, be it junipery or febrewery, marracks or alebrill or the ramping riots of pouriose and froriose.

What a quhare soort of a mahan!

It is evident the michindaddy.

Lets we overstep his fire defences and these kraals of slitsucked marrowbones.

(Cave!)

He can prapsposterus the pillory way to Hirculos Pillar.

Come on, fool porterfull, hosiered women blown monk sewer?

Scuse us, chorley guy!

You tollerday donsk?

N. You tolkatiff scowegian?

Nn.

You spigotty anglease?

Nnn.

You phonio saxo?

Nnnn.

Clear all so!

’Tis a Jute.

Let us swop hats and excheck a few strong verbs weak oach eather yapyazzard abast the blooty creeks.

JUTE: Yutah!

MUTT: Mukk’s pleasurad.

JUTE: Are you jeff?

MUTT: Somehards.

JUTE: But you are not jeffmute?

MUTT: Noho.

Only an utterer.

JUTE: Whoa?

Whoat is the mutter with you?

MUTT: I became a stun a stummer.

JUTE: What a hauhauhauhaudible thing to be cause!

How, Mutt?

MUTT: Aput the buttle, surd.

JUTE: Whose poddle?

Wherein?

MUTT: The Inns of Dungtarf where Used awe to be he.

JUTE: You that side your voise are almost inedible to me.

Become a bit-skin more wiseable, as if I were you.

MUTT: Has?

Has af?

Hasafency?

Urp Boohooru!

Booru Usurp!

I trumple from rath in mine mines when I rimimirim!

JUTE: One eyegonblack.

Bisons is bisons.

Let me fore all your hasitancy cross your qualm with trinkgilt.

Here have silvan coyne, a piece of oak.

Ghinees hies good fir yew.

MUTT: Louee, louee!

How wooden I not know it, the intellible greytcloak of Cedric Silkyshag!

Cead mealy faulty rices for one dabblin bar.

Old grilsy growlsy!

He was poached on in that eggtentical spot.

Here where the liveries, Monomark.

There where the missers moony, Minnikin Passe.

JUTE: Sumply because, as Taciturn pretells, our wrongstoryshortener, he dumptied the wholeborrow of rubbages on to soil here?

MUTT: Just how a puddinstone inat the brookcells by a riverpool.

JUTE: Load allmarshy!

Wid wad for a norse like?

MUTT: Somular with a bull on a clompturf.

Rooks roarum rex roome!

I could snore to him of the spumy horn, with his woolseley side in, by the neck I am sutton on, did Brian d’O Flinn.

JUTE: Boiledoyle and rawhoney on me when I can beuraly forstand a weird from sturk to finnic in such a patwhot as your rutterdamrotter, onheard of and umscene!

Gut aftermeal!

See you doomed.

MUTT: Quite agreem.

Bussave a sec.

Walk a dun blink roundward this all-butisle and you skull see how olde ye plaine of my Elters, hunfree and ours, where wone to wail whimbrel to peewee o’er the Saltings, where wilby citie by law of isthmon, where by a droit of signory icefloe was from his Inn the Bygning to whose Finishthere Punct.

Let erehim ruhmuhrmuhr.

Mearmerge two races, swete and brack.

Morthering rue.

Hither, craching estuards, they are in surgence: hence, cool at ebb, they requiesce.

Countlessness of livestories have netherfallen by this plage, flick as flowflakes, litters from aloft, like a waast wizzard all of whirlwords.

Now are all tombed to the mound, ishges to ishges, erde from erde.

Pride, O pride, thy prize!

JUTE: ’Stench!

MUTT: Fiatfuit!

Hereinunder lyethey.

Llarge by the smal an’ everynight life olso th’estrange, babbylone the greatgrandhotelled with tit tit tittlehouse, alp on earwig, drukn on ild, likeas equal to anequal in this sound seemetery which iz leebez luv.

JUTE: ’Zmorde!

MUTT: Meldundleise!

By the fearse wave benoughted.

Despond’s sung.

And thanacestross mound have swollup them all.

This ourth of years is not save brickdust and being humus the same roturns.

He who runes may rede it on all fours.

O’c’stle, n’wc’stle, tr’c’stle, crumbling!

Sell me sooth the fare for Humblin!

Humbeldy Fair.

But speak it allsosiftly, moulder!

Be in your whisht!

JUTE: Whysht?

MUTT: The gyant Forficules with Amni the fay.

JUTE: Howe?

MUTT: Here is viceking’s graab.

JUTE: Hwaad!

MUTT: Ore you astoneaged, jute you?

JUTE: Oye am thonthorstrok, thing mud!

(Stoop), if you are abcedminded, to this claybook, what curios of signs (please stoop) in this allaphbed!

Can you rede (since We and Thou had it out already) its world?

It is the some told of all.

Many.

Miscegenations on miscegenations.

Tieckle.

They lived und laughed and loved end left.

Forsin.

Thy thingdome is given to the Meades and Porsons.

The meandertale, aloss and again, of our old Heidenburgh in the days when Head-in-Clouds walked the earth.

In the ignorance that implies impression that knits knowledge that finds the nameform that whets the wits that convey contacts that sweeten sensation that drives desire that adheres to attachment that dogs death that bitches birth that entails the ensuance of existentiality.

But with a rush out of his navel reaching the reredos of Ramasbatham.

A terricolous vivelyon-view this; queer and, it continues to be, quakky.

A hatch, a celt, an earshare the pourquose of which was to cassay the earthcrust at all of hours, furrowards, bagawards, like yoxen at the turnpath.

Here say figurines billycoose arming and mounting.

Mounting and arming bellicose figurines see here.

Futhorc, this little effingee is for a firefing called a flintforfall.

Face at the eased!

O, I fay!

ace at the waist!

Ho, you fie!

Upwap and dump em, ace to ace!

When a part so ptee does duty for the holos we soon grow to use of an allforabit.

Here (please to stoop) are selveran cued peteet peas of quite a pecuniar interest inaslittle as they are the pellets that make the tomtummy’s pay roll.

Right rank ragnar rocks and with these rox orangotangos rangled rough and rightgorong.

Wisha, wisha, whydidtha?

Thik is for thorn that’s thuck in its thoil like thumfool’s thraitor thrust for vengeance.

What a mnice old mness it all mnakes!

A middenhide hoard of abjects!

Olives, beets, kimmells, dollies, alfrids, beatties, cormacks and daltons.

Owlets’ eegs (O stoop to please!)

are here, creakish from age and all now quite epsilene, and oldwoldy wobblewers haudworth a wipe o grass.

Sss!

See the snake wurrums everyside!

Our durlbin is sworming in sneaks.

They came to our island from triangular Toucheaterre beyond the wet prairie, rared up in the midst of the cargon of prohibitive pomefructs, but along landed Paddy Dippingham and his garbagecans cotched the creeps of them pricker than our whosethere outofman could quick up her whatsthats.

Somedivide and sumthelot but the tally turns round the same balifuson.

Racketeers and bottloggers.

Axe on thwacks on thracks, axenwise.

One by one place one be three, dittoh, and one before.

Two nursus one make a plausible free and idim behind.

Starting off with a big boaboa and threelegged calvers and ivargraine jadesses with a message in their mouths.

And a hundreadfilled unleavenweight of liberorumqueue to con an we can till allhorrors eve.

What a meanderthalltale to unfurl and with what an end in view of squattor and auntisquattor and postproneauntisquattor!

To say too us to be, every tim, mick and larry of us, sons of the sod, sons, littlesons, yea and lealittlesons, when usses not to be, every sue, siss and sally of us, dugters of Nan!

Accusative ahnsire!

Damadam to infinities!

True there was in nilloh’s dieybos as yet no lumpend papeer in the waste and mightmountain Penn still groaned for the micies to let flee.

All was of ancientry.

You gave me a boot (signs on it!)

and I ate the wind.

I quizzed you a quid (with for what?)

and you went to the quod.

But the world, mind, is, was and will be writing its own wrunes for ever, man, on all matters that fall under the ban of our infrarational senses fore the last milch camel, the heartvein throbbing between his eyebrowns, has still to moor before the tomb of his cousin charmian where his date is tethered by the palm that’s hers.

But the hour, the smiting, the day of decision is not now.

A bone, a pebble, a ramskin; chip them, chap them, cut them up allways; leave them to terracook in the slowth of the muttheringpot: and Gutenmorg with his cromagnom charter, tintingfast and great primer must once for omniboss step rubrickredd out of the wordpress else is there no virtue more in alcohoran.

For that (the rapt one warns) is what papyr is meed of, made of, hides and hints and misses in prints.

Till Ye finally (though not yet endlike) meet with the acquaintance of Mister Typus, Mistress Tope and all the little typtopies.

Fillstup.

So you need hardly spell me how every word will be bound over to carry three score and ten toptypsical readings throughout the book of Doublends Jined (may his forehead be darkened with mud who would sunder!)

till Daleth, mahomahouma, who oped it, closeth thereof the.

Dor.

Cry not yet!

There’s many a smile to Nondum, with sytty maids per man, sir, and the park’s so dark by kindlelight.

But look what you have in your handself!

The movibles are scrawling in motions, marching, all of them ago, in pitpat and zingzang, for every busy eerie whig’s a bit of a torytale to tell.

One’s upon a thyme and two’s behind their lettice leaf and three’s among the strubbely beds.

And the chicks picked their teeths and the dombkey he begay began.

You can ask your ass if he believes it.

And so cuddy me only wallops have heels.

That one of a wife with folty barnets.

For then was the age when hoops ran high.

Of a noarch and a chopwife; or of a pomme full grave and a fammy of levity; or of golden youths that wanted gelding; or of what the mischievmiss made a man do.

Malmarriedad he was reversogassed by the frisque of her frasques and her prytty pyrrhique.

Maye faye, she’s la gaye, this snaky woman!

From that trippiery toe expectungpelick!

Veil volantine, valentine eyes.

She’s the very besch Winnie blows Nau on good.

Flou inn, flow ann.

Hohore!

So it’s sure it was her not we!

But lay it easy, gentle mien, we are in nearing of a norewhig.

So weenybeenyveenyteeny.

Comsy see!

Het wis if ee newt.

Lissom!
