
Only snuffers’ cornets drifts my way that the cracka dvine chucks out of his cassock, with her estheryear’s marsh narcissus to make him recant his vanitty fair.

Foul strips of his Chinook’s bible I do be reading, dodwell disgustered but chickled with chuckles at the tittles is drawn on the tattlepage.

E Senior ga dito: Faciasi Omo!

E Omo fu fò.

Ho!

Ho!

E Senior ga dito: Faciasi Hidamo!

E Hidamo se ga facessà.

Ha!

Ha!

And Die Windermere Dichter and Lefanu (Sheridan’s) old House by the Coachyard and Mill (J.)

On Woman with Ditto on the Floss.

Ja, a swamp for Altmuehler and a stone for his flossies!

I know how racy they move his wheel.

My hands are blawcauld between isker and suda like that piece of pattern chayney there, lying below.

Or where is it?

Lying beside the sedge I saw it.

Hoangho, my sorrow, I’ve lost it!

Aimihi!

With that turbary water who could see?

So near and yet so far!

But O, gihon!

I lovat a gabber.

I could listen to maure and moravar again.

Regn onder river.

Flies do your float.

Thick is the life for mere.

Well, you know or don’t you kennet or haven’t I told you every telling has a taling and that’s the he and the she of it.

Look, look, the dusk is growing!

My branches lofty are taking root.

And my cold cher’s gone ashley.

Fieluhr?

Filou!

What age is at?

It saon is late.

’Tis endless now senne eye or erewone last saw Waterhouse’s clogh.

They took it asunder, I hurd thum sigh.

When will they reassemble it?

O, my back, my back, my bach!

I’d want to go to Aches-les-Pains.

Pingpong!

There’s the Belle for Sexaloiter!

And Concepta de Send-us-pray!

Pang!

Wring out the clothes!

Wring in the dew!

Godavari, vert the showers!

And grant Thaya grace!

Aman.

Will we spread them here now?

Ay, we will.

Flip!

Spread on your bank and I’ll spread mine on mine.

Flep!

It’s what I’m doing.

Spread!

It’s churning chill.

Der went is rising.

I’ll lay a few stones on the hostel sheets.

A man and his bride embraced between them.

Else I’d have sprinkled and folded them only.

And I’ll tie my butcher’s apron here.

It’s suety yet.

The strollers will pass it by.

Six shifts, ten kerchiefs, nine to hold to the fire and this for the code, the convent napkins, twelve, one baby’s shawl.

Goodmother Jossiph knows, she said.

Whose head?

Mutter snores?

Deataceas!

Wharnow are alle her childer, say?

In kingdome gone or power to come or gloria be to them farther?

Allalivial, allalluvial!

Some here, more no more, more again lost alla stranger.

I’ve heard tell that same brooch of the Shannons was married into a family in Spain.

And all the Dunders de Dunnes in Markland’s Vineland beyond Brendan’s herring pool takes number nine in yangsee’s hats.

And one of Biddy’s beads went bobbing lonesome till she rounded up lost histereve with a marigold and a cobbler’s candle in a side strain of a main drain of a manzinahurries off Bachelor’s Walk.

But all that’s left to the last of the Meaghers in the loup of the years prefixed and between is one kneebuckle and two hooks in the front.

Do you tell me that now?

I do, in troth.

Orara por Orbe and poor Las Animas!

Ussa, ulla, we’re umbas all!

Mezha, didn’t you hear it a deluge of times, ufer and ufer, respund to spond?

You deed, you deed!

I need, I need!

It’s that irrawaddyng I’ve stoke in my aars.

It all but husheth the lethest zswound.

Oronoko!

What’s your trouble?

Is that the great Finnleader himself in his joakimono on his statue riding the high horse there forehengist?

Father of Otters, it is himself!

Yonne there?

Isset that?

On Fallareen Common?

You’re thinking of Astley’s Amphitheayter where the bobby restrained you making sugarstuck pouts to the ghostwhite horse of the Peppers.

Throw the cobwebs from your eyes, woman, and spread your washing proper!

It’s well I know your sort of slop.

Flap!

Ireland sober is Ireland stiff.

Lord help you, Maria, full of grease, the load is with me!

Your prayers.

I sonht zo!

Madammangut!

Were you lifting your elbow, tell us, glazy cheeks, in Conway’s Carrigacurra canteen?

Was I what, hobbledyhips?

Flop!

Your rere gait’s creakorheuman bitts your butts disagrees.

Amn’t I up since the damp dawn, marthared mary allacook, with Corrigan’s pulse and vericoarse veins, my pramaxle smashed, Alice Jane in decline and my oneeyed mongrel twice run over, soaking and bleaching boiler rags, and sweating cold, a widow like me, for to deck my tennis champion son, the laundryman with the lavandier flannels?

You won your limpopo limp from the husky hussars when Collar and Cuffs was heir to the town and your slur gave the stink to Carlow.

Holy Scamander!

I sar it again!

Near the golden falls.

Icis on us!

Seints of light!

Zezere!

Subdue your noise, you hamble creature!

What is it but a blackburry growth or the dwyergray ass them four old codgers owns.

Are you meanam Tarpey and Lyons and Gregory?

I meyne now, thank all, the four of them, and the roar of them, that draves that stray in the mist and old Johnny MacDougal along with them.

Is that the Poolbeg flasher beyant, pharphar, or a fireboat coasting nyar the Kishtna or a glow I behold within a hedge or my Garry come back from the Indes?

Wait till the honeying of the lune, love!

Die, eve, little eve, die!

We see that wonder in your eye.

We’ll meet again, we’ll part once more.

The spot I’ll seek if the hour you’ll find.

My chart shines high where the blue milk’s upset.

Forgivemequick, I’m going!

Bubye!

And you, pluck your watch, forgetmenot.

Your evenlode.

So save to jurna’s end!

My sights are swimming thicker on me by the shadows to this place.

I sow home slowly now by own way, moyvalley way.

Towy I too, rathmine.

Ah, but she was the queer old skeowsha anyhow, Anna Livia, trinklytoes!

And sure he was the quare old buntz too, Dear Dirty Dumpling, foosther-father of fingalls and fotthergills!

Gammer and gaffer, we’re all their gangsters.

Hadn’t he seven dams to wive him?

And every dam had her seven crutches.

And every crutch had its seven hues.

And each hue had a differing cry.

Sudds for me and supper for you and the doctor’s bill for Joe John.

Befor!

Bifur!

He married his markets, cheap by foul, I know, like any Etrurian Catholic Heathen, in their pinky limony creamy birnies and their turkiss indienne mauves.

But at milkidmass who was the spouse?

Then all that was was fair.

Tys Elvenland!

Teems of times and happy returns.

The seim anew.

Ordovico or viricordo.

Anna was, Livia is, Plurabelle’s to be.

Northmen’s thing made southfolk’s place but howmulty plurators made eachone in person?

Latin me that, my trinity scholard, out of eure sanscreed into oure eryan!

Hircus Civis Eblanensis!

He had buckgoat paps on him, soft ones for orphans.

Ho, Lord!

Twins of his bosom.

Lord save us!

And ho!

Hey?

What all men.

Hot?

His tittering daughters of.

Whawk?

Can’t hear with the waters of.

The chittering waters of.

Flittering bats, fieldmice bawk talk.

Ho!

Are you not gone ahome?

What Thom Malone?

Can’t hear with bawk of bats, all thim liffeying waters of.

Ho, talk save us!

My foos woon’t moos.

I feel as old as yonder elm.

A tale told of Shaun or Shem?

All Livia’s daughtersons.

Dark hawks hear us!

Night!

Night!

My ho head halls.

I feel as heavy as yonder stone.

Tell me of John or Shaun?

Who were Shem and Shaun the living sons or daughters of?

Night now!

Tell me, tell me, tell me, elm!

Nighty night!

Telmetale of stem or stone.

Beside the rivering waters of, hitherandthithering waters of.

Night!

II   Every evening at lighting up o’clock sharp and until further notice in Feenichts Playhouse.

Bar and conveniences always open, Diddlem Club douncestears.

Entrancings: gads, a scrab; the quality, one large shilling.

Newly billed for each wickeday perfumance.

Somndoze massinees.

By arraignment, childream’s hours, expercatered.

Jampots, rinsed porters, taken in token.

With serial redistribution of parts and players by the puppetry producer and daily dubbing of ghosters.

With the benediction of the Holy Genesius Archimimus and under the distinguished patronage of Their Elderships the Oldens from the four coroners of Findrias, Murias, Gorias and Falias: Messoirs the Coarbs: Clive Sollis, Galorius Kettle, Pobiedo Lancey and Pierre Dusort.

While the Caesar-in-Chief looks.

On.
