Bring about it to be brought about and it will be, loke, our lake lemanted, that greyt lack, the citye of Is is issuant (atlanst!

), urban and orbal, through seep froms umber under wasseres of Erie.

Lough!

Hwo?

Hwy, dairmaidens!

Asthoreths, assay!

Earthsigh to is heavened.

Hillsengals, the daughters of the cliffs, responsen.

Longsome the samphire coast.

From thee to thee, thoo art it thoo, that thouest there.

The like the near, the liker nearer.

O sosay!

A family, a band, a school, a clanagirls.

Fiftines andbut fortines by novanas andor vantads by octettes ayand decadendecads by a lunary with last a lone.

Whose every has her different from the similies with her site.

Sicut campanulae petalliferentes they coroll in caroll round Botany Bay.

A dweam of dose innocent dirly dirls.

Keavn!

Keavn!

And they all setton voicies about singsing music was Keavn!

He.

Only he.

Ittle he.

Ah!

The whole clangalied.

Oh!

S. Wilhelmina’s, S. Gardenia’s, S. Phibia’s, S. Veslandrua’s, S. Clarinda’s, S. Immecula’s, S. Dolores Delphin’s, S. Perlanthroa’s, S. Errands Gay’s, S. Eddaminiva’s, S. Rhodamena’s, S. Ruadagara’s, S. Drimicumtra’s, S. Una Vestity’s, S. Mintargosia’s, S. Mischa-La-Valse’s, S. Churstry’s, S. Innocycora’s, S. Aungiel Calzata’s, S. Clovinturta’s, S. Clouonaskiey’s, S. Bellavistura’s, S. Santamonta’s, S. Ringsingsund’s, S. Heddadin Drade’s, S. Glacianivia’s, S. Waidafrira’s, S. Thomassabbess’s and (trema!

unloud!!

pepet!!!)

S. Loellisotoelle’s.

Prayfulness!

Prayfulness!

Euh!

Thaet is seu whaet shaell one naeme it!

The meidinogues have tongued togethering.

Ascend out of your bed, cavern of a trunk, and shrine!

Kathlins is kitchin.

Soros cast aside, ma brone!

You must be exterra acquarate to inter irrigate all the arkypelicans.

The austrologer Wallaby Tolan, a brother, who farshook our showrs from Newer Aland, has signed the you and the now our mandate.

Milenesia waits.

Be smark!

One seekings.

Not the lithe slender, not the broad roundish near the lithe slender, not the fairsized fullfeatured to the leeward of the broad roundish but, indeed and inneed, the curling, perfectportioned, flowerfleckled, shapely, highhued, delicate featured swaying to the windward of the fairsized fullfeatured.

Was that in the airabouts when something is to be said for it or is it someone imparticulant who will somewherise for the whole anyhow?

What does Coemhghen?

Tell his hidings clearly!

A woodtoogooder.

Is his moraltack still his best of weapons?

How about a little more goaling goold?

Rowlin’s tun he gadder no must.

It is the voice of Roga.

His face is the face of a son.

Be thine the silent hall, O Jarama!

A virgin, the one, shall mourn thee.

Roga’s stream is solence.

But Croona is in adestance.

The ass of the O’Dwyer of Greyglens is abrowtobayse afeald in his terroirs of the Potterton’s forecoroners, the reeks around the burleyhearthed.

When visited by an indepondant reporter, “Mike” Portlund, to burrow burning the Latterman’s Resterant so is called the gortan in questure he mikes the fallowing for the Durban Gazette, firstcoming issue.

From a collispendent.

Any were.

Deemsday.

Bosse of Upper and Lower Byggotstrade, Ciwareke, may he live for river!

The Games funeral at Valleytemple.

Saturnights pomps, exhabiting that corricatore of a harss, revealled by Oscur Camerad.

The last of Dutch Schulds, perhumps.

Pipe in Dream Cluse.

Uncovers Pub History.

The Outrage, at Length.

Affected Mob Follows in Religious Sullivence.

Rinvention of vestiges by which they drugged the buddhy.

Moviefigure on in scenic section.

By Patethicus.

And there, from out of the scuity, misty Londan, along the canavan route, that is with the years gone, mild beam of the wave his polar bearing, steerner among stars, trust Tonthena and you tread true turf, comes the sorter, Mr Hurr Hansen, talking alltheways in himself of his hopes to fall in among a merryfoule of maidens happynghome from the dance, his knyckle allaready in his knackskey fob, a passable compatriate proparly of the Grimstad galleon, ald pairs frieze, feed up to the noxer with their geese and peeas and oats upon a trencher and the toyms he’d lust in Wooming but with that smeoil like a grace of backoning over his egglips of the sunsoonshine.

Here’s heeing you in a guessmasque, latterman!

And such an improofment!

As royt as the mail and as fat as a fuddle!

Schoen!

Shoan!

Shoon the Puzt!

A penny for your thoughtabouts!

Tay, tibby, tanny, tummy, tasty, tosty, tay.

Batch is for Baker who baxters our bread.

O, what an ovenly odour!

Butter butter!

Bring us this days our maily bag!

But receive me, my frensheets, from the emerald dark winterlong!

For diss is the doss for Eilder Downes and dass is it duss, as singen sengers, what the hardworking straightwalking stoutstamping securelysealing officials who trow to form our G.M.P.’s pass muster generally shay for shee and sloo for slee when butting their headd to the pillow for a nightshared nakeshift with the alter girl they tuck in for sweepsake.

Dutiful wealker for his hydes of march.

Havd you the time, Hans ahike?

Heard you the crime, senny boy?

The man was giddy on letties on the dewry of the duary, be pursueded, whethered with entrenous, midgreys, dagos, teatimes, shadows, nocturnes or samoans, if wellstacked fillerouters, plushfeverfraus with dopy chonks, and this, that and the other, pigskins or muffle kinckles, taking a pipe course or doing an anguish, seen to his fleece in after his foull, when Dr Chart of Greet Chortles Street he changed his backbone at a citting.

He had not the declaimation, as what with the foos as whet with the fays, but, so far as hanging a goobee on the precedings, wherethen the lag allaws, it mights be anything after darks.

Which the deers alones they sees and the darkies they is snuffing of the wind up.

Debbling.

Greanteavvents!

Hyacinssies with heliotrollops!

Not once fullvixen freakings and but dubbledecoys!

It is a lable iction on the porte of the cuthulic church and summum most atole for it.

Where is that blinketey blanketer, that sound of a pealer, the sunt of a hunt what foxes good men?

Where or he, our loved among many?

But what does Coemhghen, the fostard?

Tyro a tora.

The novened iconostase of his blueygreyned vitroils but begins in feint to light his legend.

Let Phosphoron proclaim!

Peechy peechy.

Say he that saw him that saw!

Man shall sharp run do a get him.

Ask no more, Jerry mine, Roga’s voice!

No pice soorkabatcha.

The boy which puckerooed the posy.

The vinebranch of Heremonheber on Bregia’s plane where Teffia lies is leaved invert and fructed proper but the cublic hatches endnot open yet for hourly rincers’ mess.

Read Higgins, Cairns and Egan.

Malthus is yet lukked in close.

Withun.

How swathed thereanswer alcove makes theirinn!

Besoakers loiter on.

And primilibatory silicates of limon sodias will be absorbable.

It is not even yet the engine of the load with haled morries full of crates, you mattinmummur, for dombell dumbs?

Sure and ’tis not then.

The Greek Sidereal Reulthway, as it havvents, will soon be starting a smooth with its first single hastencraft danny buzzes instead of the vialact coloured milk train on the fartykket plan run with its endless gallaxion of rotatorattlers and the smooltroon our elderens rememberem as the cream of the service, Strubry Bess.

Also the waggonwobbles are still yet everdue to precipitate after night’s combustion.

Aspect, Shamus Rogua, or!

Taceate and!

Hagiographice canat Ecclesia.

Which aubrey our first shall show.

Inattendance who is who is will play that’s what’s that to what’s that what.

Oyes!

Oyeses!

Oyesesyeses!

The primace of the Gaulls, protonotorious, I yam as I yam, mitrogenerand in the free state on the air, is now aboil to blow a Gael warning.

Inoperation Eyrlands Eyot, Meganesia, habitant and the onebut thousand insels, Western and Osthern Approaches.

Of Kevin, of Increate God the servant, of the Lord Creator a filial fearer, who, given to the growing grass, took to the tall timber, slippery dick the springy heeler, as we have seen, so we have heard, what we have received, that we have transmitted, thus we shall hope, this we shall pray till, in the search for love of knowledge through the comprehension of the unity in altruism through stupefaction, it may be again how it may be again, shearing aside the four wethers and passing over the dainty daily dairy and dropping by the way the lapful of live coals and smoothing out Nelly Nettle and her lad of mettle, full of stings, fond of stones, friend of gnewgnawn sbones, and leaving all that messy messy to look after our douche douche, the miracles, death and life are these.

Yad.

Procreated on the ultimate ysland of Yreland in the encyclical Yrish archipelago, come their feast of precreated holy whiteclad angels, whom-among the christener of his, voluntarily poor Kevin, having been graunted the praviloge of a priest’s postcreated portable altare cum balneo when espousing the one true cross, invented and exalted, in celibate matrimony at matin chime arose and westfrom went and came in alb of cloth of gold to our own midmost Glendalough-le-Vert by archangelical guidance where amiddle of meeting waters of river Yssia and Essia river on this one of eithers lone navigable lake piously Kevin, lauding the Triune Trishagion, amidships of his conducible altar super bath rafted centripetally, diaconal servent of orders Hibernian, midway across the subject lake surface to its supreem epicentric lake ysle, Inis Kevin, whereof its lake is the centrifugal principality, whereon by prime, powerful in knowledge, Kevin came to where its centre is among the circumfluent watercourses of Yshgafiena and Yshgafiuna, an enysled lakelet yslanding a lacustrine yslet, whereupon with beached raft subdiaconal bath propter altar, with oil extremely anointed, accompanied by prayer, holy Kevin bided till the third morn hour but to build a rubric penitential honeybeehivehut in whose enclosure to live in fortitude, acolyte of cardinal virtues, whereof the arenary floor most holy Kevin excavated as deep as to a depth of a seventh part of one full fathom, which excavated, venerable Kevin, anchorite, taking counsel, proceeded towards the lakeside of the ysletshore whereat seven several times he eastward genuflecting in entire ubbidience at sextnoon collected Gregorian water sevenfold and with Ambrosian eucharistic joy of heart as many times receded carrying the lustral domination contained within his most portable previliged altar unacumque bath, which severally seven times into the cavity excavated, a lector of water levels, most venerable Kevin then effused, thereby letting there be water where was theretofore dry land, by him so concreated, who now, confirmed a strong and perfect Christian, blessed Kevin, exorcised his holy sister water, perpetually chaste, so that, well understanding, she should fill to midheight his tubbathaltar, which hand-bathtub most blessed Kevin ninthly enthroned in the interconcentric centre of the translated water whereamid, when violet vesper vailed, Saint Kevin Hydrophilos, having girded his sable cappa magna as high as to his cherubical loins, at solemn compline sat in his sate of wisdom, that hipbathtub, whereverafter, recreated doctor insularis of the universal church, keeper of the door of meditation, memory extempore proposing and intellect formally considering, recluse, he meditated continuously with seraphic ardour the primal sacrament of baptism or the regeneration of all man by affusion of water.

Yed.

Bisships, bevel to rock’s rite!

Sarver buoy, extinguish!

Nuotabene.

The rare view from the three Benns under the bald heaven is on the other end, askan your blixom on dimmen and blastun, something to right hume about.

They were erected in a purvious century as a hen fine coops and, if you know your Bristol and have trudged the trolly ways and elventurns of that old cobbold city, you will sortofficially scribble a mental Peny-Knox-Gore.

Whether they were franklings by name also has not been fully probed.

Their design is a whosold word and the charming details of light in dark are freshed from the feminiairity which breathes content.

O ferax cupla!

Ah, fairypair!

The first exploder to make his ablations in these parks was indeed that lucky mortal which the monster trial showed on its first day out.

What will not arky paper, anticidingly inked with Penmark, push, per sample prof, kuvertly falted, when style, stink and stigmataphoron are of one sum in the same person?

He comes out of the soil very well after all just where Old Toffler is to come shuffling alongsoons Panniquanni starts showing of her peequuliar talonts.

A waywrong wandler siuking to a rightrare rute for his plain utterrock sukes, appelled to by her fancy claddaghs.

You plied that pokar, gamesy, swell as aye did, while there were flickars to the flores.

He may be humpy, nay, he may be dumpy, but there is always something racey about, say, a sailor on a horse.

As soon as we sale him, gee, we gates a sprise!

He brings up tufatufa and that is how we get to Missas in Massas.

Thee old Marino tale.

We veriterse verity notafew demmed lustres priorly magistrite maximollient in ludubility learned.

Facst.

Teak off that wise head!

Great sinner, good sonner, is in effect the motto of the MacCowell family.

The gloved fist (skrimmhandsker) was intraduced into their socerdatal tree before the fourth of the twelfth and it is even a little odd all four horolodgeries still gonging restage Jakob van der Bethel, smolking behind his pipe, with Esav of Message-postumia, lentling out his borrowed chafingdish, before cymbaloosing the apostles at every hours of changeover.

The first and last rittlerattle of the anniverse: when is a nam nought a nam whenas it is a.

Watch!

Heroes’ Highway where our fleshers leave their bonings and every bob and joan to fill the bumper fair.

It is their segnall for old Champelysied to seek the shades of his retirement and for young Chappielassies to tear a round and tease their partners lovesoftfun at Finnegan’s Wake.

And it’s high tigh tigh.

Titley, hi ti ti.

That my dig pressed in your dag si.

Gnug of old Gnig.

Ni, gnid mig brawly!

I bag your burden!

Mees is thees knees.

Thi is Mi.

We have caught oneselves, Sveasmeas, in somes incontigruity coumplegs of heoponhurrish marrage from whose I most sublumbunate.

A polog, my engl!

Excutes.

Om still so sovvy.

Whyle om till ti ti.

Ha!

Daysgreening gains in schimninging.

A summerwint springfalls, abated.

Hail, regn of durknass, snowly receassing, thund lightening thund, into the dimbelowstars departamenty whitherout, soon hist, soon mist, to the hothehill from the hollow, Solsking the Frist (attempted by the admirable Captive Bunting and Loftonant-Cornel Blaire) will processingly show up above Tumplen Bar whereupout he was much jubilated by Boergemester “Dyk” ffogg of Isoles, now Eisold, looking most plussed with (exhib 39) a clout-capped sunbubble anaccanponied from his bequined torse.

Up.

Blanchardstown mewspeppers pleads coppyl.

Gracest goodness, heave mensy upponnus!

Grand old Manbatton, give your bowlers a rest!

It is a mere mienerism of this vague of visibilities, mark you, as accorded to by moisturologist of the Brehons Assorceration for the Advauncement of Scayence, because, my dear, mentioning of it under the breath, as in pure (what bunkum!)

essenesse, there have been disselving forenenst you just the draeper, the two drawpers assisters and the three droopers assessors confraternitisers.

Who are, of course, Uncle Arth, your two cozes from Niece and (project a bit now!)

our own familiars, Billyhealy, Ballyhooly and Bullyhowley, surprised in an indecorous position by the Sigurd Sigerson Sphygmomanometer Society for bledprusshers.

Knightsmore.

Haventyne?

Ha ha!

This Mister Ireland?

And a live?

Ay, ay.

Aye, aye, baas.

The cry of Stena chills the vitals of slumbring off the motther has been pleased into the harms of old salaciters, meassurers soon and soon, but the voice of Alma gladdens the cocklyhearted dreamerish for that magic moning with its ching chang chap sugay kaow laow milkee muchee bringing beckerbrose, the brew with the foochoor in it.

Sawyest?

Nodt?

Nyets, I dhink I sawn to remumb or sumbsuch.

A kind of a thinglike all traylogged then pubably it resymbles a pelvic or some kvind then props an acute-backed quadrangle with aslant off ohahnthenth a wenchyoumaycuddler, lying with her royalirish uppershoes among the theeckleaves.

