Howmuch is he?

Which is he?

When is he?

Where is he?2 How is he?

And what the decans is there about him anyway, the decemt man?

Easy, calm your haste!

Approach to lead our passage!

Constitution of the consstitutionable as constitutional.

This bridge is upper.

Cross.

Thus come to castle.

Knock.3 A password, thanks.

Yes, pearse.

Well, all be dumbed!

O really?4 Probapossible prolegomena to ideoreal history.

Swing the banjo, bantams, bounce-the-baller’s blown to fook.

Hoo cavedin earthwight At furscht krach of thunder.5 When Shoo, his flutterby, Was netted and named.6 Thsight near left me eyes when I seen her put thounce otay ithpot.

Erdnacrusha, requiestress, wake em!

And let luck’s puresplutterall lucy at ease!7 To house as wise fool ages builded.

Sow byg eat.8   Quartandwds.

Staplering to tether to, steppingstone to mount by; and coach house entrance as the Boote’s at Pickardstown.

And that skimmelk steed still in the groundloftfan.

As over all.

Or be these wingsets leaned to the outwalls, beastskin trophies, of booth of Baws the balsamboards?9 Burials be bally-houraised!

So let Bacchus e’en call!

Inn inn!

Inn inn!

Where.

The babbers Gnosis of precreate determination.

Agnosis of postcreate determinism.

Tickets for the Tailwaggers Terrierpuppy Raffle.

ply the pen.

The bibbers drang the den.

The papplicom, the pubblicam, he’s turning tin for ten.

From seldomers that most frequent him.

That same erst crafty hakemouth which of foggy old, under the assumed name of Ignotus Loquor, harangued bellyhooting fishdrunks on their favourite Smith, no home.

stamping ground from a fathertheobalder brake.1 Rolf the Ganger, Rough the Gangster, not a feature alike and the face the same.2 And Egyptus, the Mars speaking.

incenstrobed, as Cyrus heard of him?

And Major A. Shaw after he got the miner smellpex?

And old Whiteman self, the blighty blotchy, beyond the bays, hope of Ostrogothic and Ottomanic father converters, despair of Pan-demia’s postwartem plastic surgeons, Hispano-Cathayan-Euxine, Castilian-Emeratic-Hebridian, Espanol-Cymric-Helleniky?

But it was all so long ago.

Pastimes are past times.

Now let bygones be bei Gunne’s.

Saa, leddies, er it in this warken werden, minne boerne, and it vild need olderwise3 since primal made alter in garden of Idem.

The tasks above are as the flasks Non quod sed quiat.

below, saith the Emerald Canticle of Hermes.

And all’s loth and pleasestir, are we told, on excellent inkbottle authority, solarsystemised, seriolcosmically, in a more and more almightily expanding universe under one, there is rhymeless reason to believe, original sun.

Securely judges orb Hearasay in paradox lust.

terrestrial.4 Haud certo ergo.

But O felicitous culpability, sweet bad cess to you for an archetypt!

Honour commercio’s energy yet aid the linkless proud, the plurable with everybody and ech with pal, this ernst of Allsap’s ale hailaday of roaring month with its two lunar eclipses and its three saturnine settings!

Horn of Heatthen, highbrowed!

Brook of Life, bachfrish!

Amnios amnium, fluminiculum flaminulinorum!

We seek the Blessed One, the Harbourer-cum-Enheritance.

Even Canaan the Hateful.

Ever a-going, ever a-coming.

Between a stare and a sough.

Fossilisation, all branches.5 Archaic zelotypia and the odium teleologicum.

Bags.

Wherefore Petra sware unto Ulma: By the mortals’ frost!

But Ulma sware Balls.

unto Petra: On my veiny life!

In theses places sojournemus, where Eblinn water, leased of carr and fen, leaving amont her shoals and salmonbrowses, whom inshore breezes woo with freshets, windeth to her broads.

A phantom city, phaked of philim pholk, bowed and sould for a four of hundreds of manhood in their three The localisation of legend leading to the legalisation of latifudism.

Move up, Mackinerny!

Make room for Muckinurney!

and threescore fylkers for a price partitional of twenty six and six.

By this riverside of our sunnybank,1 how buona the vista, by Santa Rosa!

A field of May, the very vale of Spring.

Orchards here are lodged: sainted lawrels evremberried: you have a hoig view ashwald: a glen of marrons and of thorns: Gleannaulinn, Ardeevin: purty glint of plaising height.

This Norman court at boundary of the ville, yon creepered tower of a church of Ereland, meet for true saints in worshipful assemblage,2 with our king’s house of stone, belgroved of mulbrey, the still that was mill and Kloster that was Yeomansland, the ghastcold tombshape of the quick foregone on, the loftleaved elm Lefanunian abovemansioned, each, every, all is for the retro-spectioner.

Skole!

Agus skole igen!3 Sweetsome as auburn cometh up as a selfreizing flower that fragolance of the fraisey beds: the phoenix, his pyre, is still flaming away with trueprattight spirit: the wren his nest is niedelig as the turrises of the Sabines are televisible.

Here are the cottage and the bungalow for the cobbeler and the brandnewburgher:4 but Izolde, her In snowdrop, trou-de-dentelle, flesh and heliotrope.

chaplet gardens, an litlee plads af liefest pose arride the wimmerful wonders off, the winnerful wonnerful wanders off,5 with hedges of ivy and hollywood and bower of mistletoe, are, tho if it theem tho and yeth if you pleathe, for the blithehaired daughter of Angoisse.6 All out of two barreny old perishers, Tytonyhands and Vlossyhair, a kilolitre in metromyriams.

Presepeprosapia, the parent bole.

Wone tabard, wine tap and warm tavern7 and, by ribbon development, from contact bridge to lease lapse, only two millium two humbered and eighty thausig nine humbered and sixty radiolumin Here’s our dozen cousins from the starves on tripes.

lines to the wustworts of Finntown’s generous poet’s office.

Distorted mirrage, aloofliest of the plain, wherein the boxomness of the bedelias8 makes hobbyhodge happy in his hole.9 The store and charter, Treetown Castle under Lynne.

Rivapool?

Hod a brieck on it!

But its piers eerie, its span spooky, its toll but a till, its parapets all peripateting, D’Oblong’s by his by.

Which we all pass.

Pons.

In our snoo.

Znore.

While we hitherward the thither.

Schein.

Shore.

Which assoars us from the murk of the mythelated in the barrabelowther, bedevere butlered table round, past Morningtop’s necessity and Harington’s invention, to the clarience of the childlight in the studiorium upsturts.

Here we’ll dwell on homiest powers, love at the latch with novices nig and nag.

The chorus: the principals.

For the rifocillation of their inclination to the manifestation of irritation: doldorboys and doll.1 After sound, light and heat, memory, will and understanding.

Here (the memories framed from walls are minding) till wranglers for wringwrowdy wready are, F ,at gaze, respecting, fourteenth baronet, Preausteric man and his pursuit of panhysteric woman.

Bet you fippence, anythesious, there’s no puggatory, are yous game?

meet, altrettanth bancorot, chaff, and ere commence commencement catalaunic when Aetius’s check chokewill Attil’s gambit (that buxon breezeup, give it a burl!

), lead us seek, O june of eves the jenniest, thou who fleest ficklesome the fond fervid frondeur to thickly thyself attach with thine self-teased ensuer,2 ondrawer of our unconscionable, flickerflapper fore our unterdrugged,3 lead us seek, lote us see, light us find, let us miss not Maida-date, Mimosa Multimimetica, the maymeaminning of maimoomeining!

Elpis, thou fountain of the greeces, all shall speer theeward,4 from kongen in his canteenhus to knivers hind the knoll.

Ausonius Audacior and gael, There was a sweet hopeful culled Cis.

gillie, gall.5 Singalingalying.

Storiella as she is syung.

Whence, plutonically pursuant on briefest glimpse from gladrags, followeup with endspeaking nots for yestures pretty Proserpronette whose slit satchel spilleth peas.

Belisha beacon, beckon bright!

Usherette, unmesh us!

That grene ray of earong it waves us to yonder as the red, blue and yellow flogs time on the domisole,6 with a blewy blow and a windigo.

Where flash becomes word and silents selfloud.

To trace congeners, trebly bounden and asservaged twainly.

Adamman,7 Emhe, Issossianusheen and sometypes Yggely ogs Weib.

Uwayoei!8 So mag this sybilette be our shibboleth that we may Urges and widerurges in a primitive sept.

The Big Bear bit the Sailor’s Only.

Trouble, trouble, trouble.

syllable her well!

Vetus may be occluded behind the mou in Veto but Nova will be nearing as their radient among the Nereids.

A one of charmers, ay, Una Unica.

Charmers who, under the branches of the elms, in shoes as yet Forening Unge Kristlike Kvinne.

unshent by stoniness, wend, went, will wend a way of honey myrrhs and rambler roses, mistymusky, while still the Maybe mantles the meiblumes fore ever her If has faded from the fleur,1 their arms enlocked Telltale me all of annaryllies.

(ringrang, the chimes of sexappealing as Conchitas with Sentas stray,2 rung!

), all thinking all of it, the It with an itch in it, the All every inch of it, the pleasure each will preen her for, the business each was bred to breed by.3 Soon jeminijohns will cudgel about some a rhythmatick or other over Browne and Nolan’s divisional tables whereas she, of nimious novence charily Early notions of acquired rights and the in fluence of collective tradition upon the individual.

Will you carry my can and fight the fairies?

being cupid for mug’s wumping, grooser’s grubbiness, andt’s avarice and grossopper’s grandegaffe with her tootpettypout of jemenfichue will sit and knit on solfa sofa.4 Stew of the evening, booksyful stew.

And a bodikin a Allma Mathers, Auctioneer.

boss in the Thimble Theatre.

But all is her inbourne.

Intend.

From gramma’s grammar she has it that if there is a third person, mascarine, phelinine or nuder, being spoken abad it moods prosode from a first person speaking to her second which is the direct object that has been spoken to, with and at.

Take the dative with his oblative5 for, even if obsolete, it is always of interest, so spake gramma on the impetus of her imperative, only mind you’re Old Gavelkind the Gamper and he’s as daff as you’re erse.

genderous towards his reflexives such that I was to your grappa (Bott’s trousend, hore a mann uff!)

when him was me hedon6 and mine, what the lewdy saying, his analectual pygmyhop.7 It’s a wild’s kitten, my dear, who can tell a wilkling from a warthog.

For you may be as practical as is predicable but you must have the proper sort of accident to meet that kind of a being with a difference.8 There is comfortism in the knowledge that often hate on first hearing comes of love by second sight.

Have your little sintalks in the dunk of subjunctions, dual in duel and prude with pruriel, but even the aoriest chaparound whatever plaudered perfect anent prettydotes and haec genua omnia may perhaps chance to be about to be in the case to be becoming a pale peterwright in spite of all your tense accusatives whilstly you’re wallfioored9 like your gerandiums for the better half of a yearn or sob.

Flame at his fumbles but freeze on his fist.10 Every letter is a godsend: ardent Ares, brusque Boreas and glib Ganymede like zealous Zeus, Undante umoroso, M. 50·50.

the O’Megisthest of all.

To me or not to me, satis thy quest on.

Werbungsap!

Jeg suis, vos wore a gentleman, thou arr, I am a quean.

Is a game over?

The game goes on.

Cookcook!

Search me.

The beggar the maid the bigger the mauler.

And the grosser the patrarc the griefer the pinch.

And that’s what your doctor knows.

O love it is the commonknounest thing how it pashes the plutous and the paupe.1 Pop!

And, egg she active or spoon she passive, all them fine clauses in Lindley and Murrey’s never braught the participle of a present to a desponent hortatrixy, vindicatively I say it, from her postconditional future.

Lumpsome is who lumpsum pays.

Quantity counts though accents falter.

Yoking apart and oblique orations parsed to I’ll go for that small polly if you’ll suck to your lebbensquatsch.

one side, a brat,2 alanna, can choose from so many, be he a solicitor’s appendix, a pipe clerk or free functionist flyswatter, that perfect little cad, from the languors and weakness of limberlimbed lassihood till the head, back and heartaches of waxed-up womanage, and heaps on heaps of other things too.

Note the Respectable Irish Distressed Ladies and the Merry Mustard Frothblowers of Humphreystown Associations.

Atac first, queckqueck quicks after.

Beware how in that hist subtaile of schlangder3 lies liaison—to tease oreilles!

To vert embowed set proper penchant.

But learn from that ancient tongue to be middle old modern to the minute.

A spitter that can be depended on.

Though Wonderlawn’s lost us for ever.

Alis, alas, she broke the glass!

Liddell looker through the leafery, ours is mistery of pain.4 You may spin on Youthlit’s bike and multiplease your Mike and O’Mara Farrell.

Nike with your kickshoes on the algebrars but, volve the virgil page and view, the O of woman is long when burly those two muters sequent her so Verschwindibus.

from Nebob5 see you never stray who’ll nimm you nice and nehm the day.

Ulstria Monastir Leninstar and Connecticut.

One hath just been areading, hath not one, ya, ya, in their memoiries of Hireling’s puny wars, end so, und all, ga, ga, of The O’Brien, The O’Connor, The MacLoughlin and The MacNamara, with summed their appendage, da, da, of Sire Jeallyous Seizer, that gamely torskmester,6 with his duo Concomitance of courage, counsel and constancy.

Ordination of omen, onus and obit.

Distribution of danger, duty and destiny.

Polar principles.

Cliopatria, thy hosies history.

of druidesses in readymoney rompers7 and the tryonforit of Oxthievious,Lapidous and Malthouse Anthemy.

You may fail to see the lie of that layout, Suetonia,1 but the reflections which recur to me are that so long as beauty life is body love and so bright as Mutua of your mirror2 holds her candle to your caudle (lone lefthand likeless, sombring Autum of your Spring) reck you not one spirt of anyseed whether trigemellmen cuddle his coddle or nope.

She’ll confess it by her figure though she deny it to your face.

If you’re not ruined by that one she won’t do you any whim.

And then?

What afters it?

Gruff Gunne may blow, Gam Gonna flow, the gossans eye The Eroico Furioso makes the valet like smiling.

the jennings aye.

From the butts of Heber and Heremon, nolens volens, brood our pansies brune in brume.

There’s a split in the infinitive from to have been to will be.

As they warred in their big innings ease now we never shall know.

Eat early earthapples.

Coax Cobra to chatters.

Hail, Heva, we the jennings aye.

From the butts of Heber and Heremon, nolens volens, brood our pansies brune in brume.

There’s a split in the infinitive from to have been to will be.

As they warred in their big innings ease now we never shall know.

Eat early earthapples.

Coax Cobra to chatters.

Hail, Heva, we The hyperape the mink he groves the mole you see now for crush sake, chawley!

hear!

This is the glider that gladdened the girl3 that list to the wind that lifted the leaves that folded the fruit that hung on the tree that grew in the garden Gough gave.

Wide hiss, we’re wizening.

Hoots fromm, we’re globing.

Why hidest thou hinder thy husband his name?

Leda, Lada, aflutter afraida, so does your girdle grow!

Willed without witting, whorled without aimed.

Pappapassos, Mammamanet, warwhetswut and whowitswhy.4 But Pige pas.

it’s tails for toughs and titties for totties and come buckets come bats till deeleet.

Dark ages clasp the daisy roots.5 Stop, if you are a sally of the allies, hot off minowaurs and naval actiums, picked engagements and banks of rowers.

Please stop if you are a B.C.

minding missy, please do.

But should you Panoptical purview of political progress and the future presentation of the past.

prefer A.D. stepplease, O do.

