See Capels and then fly.

Show me that complaint book here.

Where’s Cowtends Kateclean, the woman with the muckrake?

When will the W.D.

face of our sow muckloved D’lin, the Troia of towns and Carmen of cities, crawling with mendiants in perforated clothing, get its wellbelavered whitewish like L’pool and M’chester?

When’s that grandnational goldcapped dupsydurby houspill coming with its vomitories for our mothers-in-load and stretchers for their devitalised males?

I am all of me for freedom of speed but who’ll disasperaguss Pope’s Avegnue or who’ll uproose the Opian Way?

Who’ll brighton Brayhowth and bait the Bull Bailey and never despair of Lorcansby?

The rampant royal commissioners!

’Tis an ill weed blows no poppy good.

And this labour’s worthy of my higher.

Oil for meed and toil for feed and a walk with the band for Job Loos.

If I hope not charity what profiteers me?

Nothing!

My tippers of flags are knobs of hardshape for it isagrim tale, keeping the father of curls from the sport of oak.

Do you know what, liddle giddles?

One of those days I am advised by the smiling voteseeker who is now snoring elected to positively strike off hiking for good and all, as I bldy well bdly ought, until such temse loiter on as some mood is made under privy-sealed orders to get me an increase of automoboil and footwear for these poor discalced and a bourse from Bon Somewind for a cure at Bad Anyweir (though where it’s going to come from this time …) as I sartunly think now, honest to John, for an income plexus that that’s about the sanguine boundary limit.

Amean.

Sis dearest, Jaun added with voise somewhit murky, what though still high fa luting, as he turned his dorse to her to pay court to it and ouver-leaved his booseys to give the note and score, phonoscopically incuriosited and melancholic this time, whiles, as on the fulmament he gaped in wulderment, his onsaturncast eyes in stellar attraction followed swift to an imaginary swellaw, O, the vanity of Vanissy!

All ends vanishing!

Pursonally, Grog help me, I am in no violent hurry.

If time enough lost the ducks, walking easy found them.

I’ll nose a blue fonx with any tristys blinking upon this earthlight of all them that pass by the way of the deerdrive, conconey’s run or wilfrid’s walk, but I’d turn back as lief as not if I could only spoonfind the nippy girl of my heart’s appointment, Mona Vera Toutou Ipostila, my lady of Lyons, to guide me by gastronomy under her safe conduct.

That’s more in my line.

I’d ask no kinder of fates than to stay where I am, with my tinny of brownie’s tea, under the invocation of Saint Jamas Hanway, servant of Gamp, lapidated, and Jacobus A’Pershawm, intercissous, for my thurifex, with Peter Roche, that frind of my boozum, leaning on my cubits, at this passing moment by localoption in the birds’ lodging, me pheasants among, where I’ll dreamt that I’ll dwealth mid warblers’ walls when throstles and choughs to my sigh hiehied, with me hares standing up well and me longlugs dittoes, where a maurdering row (the fox!)

has broken at the coward sight, till well on into the beausome of the exhaling night, pinching stopandgo jewels out of the hedges and catching dimtop brilliants on the tip of my wagger, but for that owled clock (fast cease to it!)

has just gone twoohoo the hour and yen breezes zipping round by Drumsally do be devils to play fleurt.

I could sit on safe side till the bark of Saint Grouse’s for hoopoe’s hours, till heoll’s hoerrisings, laughing lazy at the sheep’s lightning, and turn a widamost ear dreamily to the drummling of snipers, hearing the wireless harps of sweet old Aerial and the mails across the nightriver (peepet!

peepet!)

and whippoorwilly in the woody (moor park!

moor park!

), as peacefed as a philopotamus, and crekking jugs at the grenoulls, leaving tealeaves for the trout and belleeks for the wary, till I’d followed through my upfielded neviewscope the rugaby moon cumuliously goarolling himself westasleep amuckst the cloud-scrums for to watch how carefully my nocturnal goosemother would lay her new golden sheegg for me down under in the shy orient.

What wouldn’t I poach—the rent in my riverside, my otther shoes, my beavery, honest!—ay, and melt my belt, for a dace feast of grannom with the finny ones, those happy guppies in their minnowahaw, flashing down the swansway, leaps ahead of the Swift MacEels, the big Gillaroo redfellows and the pursewinded carpers, rearin antis rood perches astench of me, or, when I’d like own company best, with the help of a norange and bear, to be reclined on my logansome by the lasher, my g.b.d in my f.a.c.e, solfanelly in my shellyholders and lov’d Latakia, the benuvolent, for my nosethrills, with the jealosomines wilting away to their heart’s deelight and the king of saptimber letting down his humely odours for my consternation, dapping my griffeen, burning water in the spearlight or catching trophies of the king’s royal college of sturgeons by the armful for to bake pike and pie while, O twined me abower in L’Alouette’s Tower, all Adelaide’s naughtingerls juck-jucking benight me, I’d gamut my twittynice Dorian blackbudds the chthonic solphia off my singasongapiccolo to pipe musicall airs on numberous fairyaciodes.

I give, a king, to me, she does, alone, up there, yes see, I double give, till the spinney all eclosed asong with them.

Isn’t that lovely though?

I give to me alone I trouble give!

I may have no mind tamagnage the forte bits like the pianage but you can’t cadge me off the key.

I’ve a voicical lilt too true.

Nomario!

And bemolley and jiesis!

For I sport a whatyoumacormack in the latcher part of my throushers.

And the lark that I let fly (olala!)

is as cockful of funantics as it’s tune to my fork.

Naturale you might lower register me as diskrecordant, but I’m athlone in the lilla-billing of killarnies.

That’s flat.

Yet ware the wold, you!

What’s good for the gorse is a goad for the garden.

Lethals lurk hemlocked in logans.

Loathe laburnums.

Dash the gaudy deathcup!

Bryony O’Bryony, thy name is Belladama!

But enough of greenwood gossip.

Birdsnests is birdsnests.

Thine to wait but mine to wage.

And now play sharp to me.

Doublefirst I’ll head foremost through all my exam hoops.

And what sensitive coin I’d be possessed of at Latouche’s, begor, I’d sink it sumtotal, every dolly farting, in vestments of subdominal poteen at prime cost and I bait you my chancey oldcoat against the whole ounce you half on your backboard (if madamaud strips mesdamines may cold strafe illglands!)

that I’m the gogetter that’d make it pay like cash registers as sure as there’s a pot on a pole.

And, what with one man’s fisch and a dozen men’s poissons, sowing my wild plums to reap ripe plentihorns mead, lashings of erboale and hydromel and bragget, I’d come out with my magic fluke in close time, fair, free and frolicky, zooming tophole on the mart as a factor.

And I tell you the Bectives wouldn’t hold me.

By the unsleeping Solman Annadromous, ye god of little pescies, nothing would stop me.

Not the Ulster Rifles and the Cork Milice and the Dublin Fusees and Connacht Rangers ensembled!

For money makes multimony like the brogues and the kishes.

I’d axe the channon and leip a liffey and drink annyblack water that rann on me way.

Yip!

How’s that for scats, mine shatz, for a lovebird?

To funk is only peternatural, it’s daring feers divine.

Bebold!

Like Varian’s, balaying all behind me.

And, zoom, before you knew where you weren’t, I stake my ignitial’s divy, cash-and-cash-can-again, I’d be staggering humanity and loyally rolling you over, my sow white spouse, in tons of red clover, nighty nigh to the metronome, fiehigh and fiehigher and fiehighest of all!

Holy petter and pal, I’d spoil you altogether, my sumptuous Sheila!

Mumm all to do but frull up fizz and unpop a few shortrusians or shake a pail of sparkling ice.

Hear it swirl, happy girl!

Not a spot of my hide but you’d love to seek and scan again!

There’d be no standing me, I tell you.

And, as gameboy as my pagan name K.C.

is what it is, I’d never say let fly till we shot that blissup and swumped each other, manawife, into our sever nevers where I’d plant you, my Gizzygay, on the electric ottoman in the lap of lechery, simpringly stitchless with admiracion, among the most uxuriously furnished compartments with sybarate chambers, just as I’d run my shoestring into near a million or so of them as a firstclass dealer and everything.

Only for one thing, that howover famiksed I would become I’d be awful anxious, you understand, about Shoepisser Pluvius and in assideration of the terrible luftsucks woabling around with the hedrolics in the coold amstophere till the bording that would perish the Dane and his chapter of accidents to be atramental to the better half of my alltoolyrical health, not considering my capsflap, and that’s the truth now out of the cackling bag, for truly sure for another thing I never could tell the leest falsehood that would truthfully give sotisfiction.

I’m not talking apple sauce eithou.

Or up in my hat.

I earnst.

Fschue!

Sissibis dearest, as I was reading to myself not very long ago in Tennis Flonnels MacCourther, his correspondence, besated upon my tripos, and just thinking like thauthor how long I’d like myself to be continued at Hothelizod, peeking into the fuocus and pecking at thumbnail reveries, pricking up ears to my phono on the ground and picking up airs from th’other over th’ether, ’tis tramsported with grief I am by this night sublime, as you may see by my size and my brow that’s all forehead, to go forth, frank and hoppy, to the tune the old plow tied off, from our nostorey house upon this benedictine errand, but it is historically the most glorious mission, secret or profund, through all the annals of our—as you so often term her—efferfreshpainted livy, in beautific repose, upon the silence of the dead, from Pharoph the nextfirst down to Ramescheckles the lastbust thing.

The Vico road goes round and round to meet where terms begin.

Still, onappealed to by the cycles and unappalled from by the recoursers, we feel all serene, never you fret, as regards our dutyful cask.

Full of my breadth from pride I am (breezed be the healthy same!)

for ’tis a grand thing (superb!)

to be going to meet a king, not an everynight king, nenni, by gannies, but the overking of Hither-on-Thither Erin himself, pardee, I’m saying.

Before there was a patch at all on Ireland there lived a lord at Lucan.

We only wish everyone was as sure of anything in this watery world as we are of everything in the newlywet fellow that’s bound to follow.

I’ll lay you a guinea for a hayseed now.

Tell mother that.

And tell her tell her old one.

’Twill amuse her.

Well, to the figends of Annamneses with the wholeabuelish business!

For I declare to Jeshuam I’m beginning to get sunsick!

I’m not half Norawain for nothing.

The fine ice so temperate of our, alas, these times are not so far off as you might wish to be congealed.

So now, I’ll ask of you, let ye create no scenes in my poor primmafore’s wake.

I don’t want yous to be billowfighting your biddy moriarty duels, gobble gabble, over me till you spit stout, you understand, after soused mackerel, sniffling clambake to hering and imputent barney, braggart of blarney, nor your ugly lemoncholic gobs o’er the hobs in a sewing circle, stopping oddments in maids’ costumes at sweeping reductions, wearing out your ohs by sitting around on your ahs, making areekaransy round where I last put it, with the painters in too, curse me luck, with your rags up, exciting your mucuses, turning breakfarts into lost soupirs, nor your flabbies on your groaning chairs for flapjack and salonthay over Bollivar’s troubles of a bluemoondag, steaming your damp ossicles, praying Holy Prohibition and Jaun Dyspeptist while Ole Clo goes through the wood with Shep togather, touting in the chestnut burrs for Goodboy Sommers and Mistral Blownowse hugs his kindlings, when voiceyversey it’s my gala benefit, robbing leaves out of my taletold book.

May my tunc fester if ever I see such a miry lot of maggalenes!

Once upon a drunk and a fairly good drunk it was and the rest of your blatherumskite!

Just a plain shays by the fire for absenter Sh the Po and I’ll make ye all an eastern hummingsphere of myself the moment that you name the way.

Look in the slag scuttle and you’ll see me sailspread over the singing, and what do ye want trippings for when you’ve Paris inspire your hat?

Sussumcordials all round, let ye alloyiss and ominies, while I stray and let ye not be getting grief out of it, though blighted troth be all bereft, on my poor headsake, even should we forfeit our life.

Lo, improving ages wait ye!

In the orchard of the bones.

Some time very presently now when yon clouds are dissipated after their forty years’ shower, the odds are, we shall all be hooked and happy, communionistically, among the fieldnights elycean, élite of the elect, in the land of lost of time.

Johannisburg’s a revelation!

Deck the diamants that never die!

So cut out the lonesome stuff!

Drink it up, ladies, please, as smart as you can lower it!

Out with lent!

Clap hands, postillion!

Fastintide is by.

Your sole and myopper must hereupon part company.

So for e’er now fare thee welt!

Parting’s fun.

Take thou, the wringle’s thine, love.

This dime doth trost thee from mine alms.

Goodbye, swisstart, goodbye!

Laugh!

Sure, treasures, a letterman does be often thought reading ye between lines that do have no sense at all.

I sign myself.

With much leg.

Inflexibly yours.

Ann Posht the Shorn.

To be continued.

Huck!

Something of a sidesplitting nature must have occurred to westminstrel Jaunathaun for a grand big blossy hearty stenorious laugh (even Drudge that lay doggo thought feathers fell) hopped out of his woolly’s throat like a ball lifted over the head of a deep field at the bare thought of how jolly they’d like to be trolling his whoop, and all of them truetotypes in missammen massness were just starting to spladher splodher with the jolly magorios, hicky hecky hock, huges huges huges, hughy hughy hughy, O Jaun (Thou pure!

Our virgin!

Thou holy!

Our health!

Thou strong!

Our victory!

O salutary!

Sustain our firm solitude, thou who thou well strokest!

Hear, hairy ones!

We have sued thee but late.

Beauty parlous!

), so jokable and so geepy, O, when suddenly (how like a woman!

), swifter as mercury, he wheels right round starnly on the Rizzies suddenly, with his gimlets blazing rather sternish (how black like thunder!

), to see what’s loose.

So they stood still and wondered.

Till first he sighed (and how ill soufered!)

and they nearly cried (the salt of the earth!)

after which he pondered and finally he replied: — There is something more.

A word apparting and shall the heart’s tone be silent.

Engagements, I’ll beseal you!

Fare thee well, fairy well!

All I can tell you is this, my sorellies.

It’s prayers in layers all the thumping time, begor, the young gloria’s gang voices the old doxologers, in the suburrs of the heavenly gardens, once we shall have passed, after surceases, all serene, snug, neck and neck like Derby and June, through to our eternal retribution’s reward (the scorchhouse).

Shunt us!

Shunt us!

Shunt us!

If you want to be felixed come and be parked.

Sacred ease there!

The Seanad and pobbelqueue’s remainder.

To it, to it!

Seekit headup!

No petty family squabbles Up There nor homemade hurricanes in our Cohortyard, no cupahurling nor apuckalips nor no puncheon jodelling nor no nothing.

With the Byrns which is far better and eve for ever your idle be.

You will hardly reconnaitre the old wife in the new bustle and the farmer shinner in his latterday paint.

It’s the fulldress Toussaint’s wakeswalks experdition after a bail motion from the chamber of horrus.

Saffron buns or sovran bonhams whichever you’re avider to like it and lump it, but give it a name.

Eireny allover Irelands.

And there’s food for refection when the whole flock’s at home.

Hogmanny di’ye gut?

Hogmanny di’ye smellygut?

And hogmanny di’ye smellyspatterygut?

You take Joe Hanny’s tip for it!

Post Mortem is the goods.

With Jollification a tight second.

Toborrow and toburrow and tobarrow!

That’s our crass, hairy and evergrim life, till one finel howdiedow Bouncer Naster raps on the bell with a bone and his stinkers stack behind him with the sceptre and the hourglass.

We may come, touch and go, from atoms and ifs, but we’re presurely destined to be odd’s without ends.

Here we moult in Moy Kain and flop on the seemy side, living sure of hardly a doorstep for a stopgap, with Whogoesthere and a live sandbag round the corner.

But upmeyant, by the banks of our chlorified Amneslethea, you sprout all your abel and woof your wings, dead certain however of neuthing whatever to aye forever, while Hyam Huam’s in the chair.

Ah, sure, pleasantries aside, in the tail of the cow what a humptydaum earth looks our miseryme heretoday as compared beside the Hereweareagain Gaieties of the Afterpiece when the Royal Revolver of the real globoes lets regally fire of his mio colpo for the chrisman’s pandemom to give over and the Harlequinade to begin properly SPQueaRking.

Mark Time’s Finist Joke.

Putting Allspace in a Notshall.

Well, the slice and veg joint’s well in its way and so is a ribroast and jackknife as sportan diet, but home cooking everytime.

Mountain’s good mustard and, with the helpings of ladies’ lickfigs and gentlemen’s relish, I’ve eaten a griddle.

But I fill twice as stewhard what I felt before when I’m after eating a few natives.

The crisp of the crackling is in the chawing.

Give us another cup of your scald!

Santos Mozos!

That was a damn good cup of scald.

You could trot a mouse on it.

I ingoyed your pick of hissing hot luncheon fine, I did, thanks awfully (sublime!).

Tenderest bully ever I ate with the boiled protestants (allinoilia, allinoilia!)

only for your peas again was a taste tooth psalty to carry flavour with my godown and hereby return with my best savioury condiments and a penny in the plate for the jemes.

O.K.

Oh Kosmos!

Ah Ireland!

A.I.

And for kailkannonkabbis gimme Cincinnatis with Italian (but ci vuol poco!)

ciccalick cheese.

Haggis good, haggis strong, haggis never say die!

For quid we have recipimus, recipe, O lout!

