New highs for all!

Redu Negru may be black in tawn but under them lintels are staying my horneymen meet each his mansiemagd.

For peers and gints, quaysirs and galleyliers, fresk letties from the say and stale headygabblers, gaingangers and dudder wagoners, pullars off societies and pushers on rothmere’s homes.

Obeyance from the townsmen spills felixity by the toun.

Our bourse and our politico-ecomedy are in safe with good Jock Shepherd, our lives are on sure in sorting with Jonathans, wild and great.

Been so free!

Thank you, besters!

Hattentats have mindered, blaublaze devilbobs have gone from the mode and hairtrigger nicks are quite out of time now.

Thuggeries are reere as glovars’ metins, lepers lack and ignorants show beneath suspicion like the bitterhalves of esculapuloids.

In midday’s mallsight let Miledd discurverself, Meludd in her hide park seek Minuitette.

All is waldly bonums.

Blownose aerios, we luft to you!

Firebugs, good blazes!

Lubbers, keep your poudies drier!

Seamen, we segn your skivs and wives!

Seven ills sobarely as centripunts havd I habt, seaventy seavens for circumference inkeptive are your hill prospect: Brayd, Blackfordrock, the Calton, the Liberton, Craig and Lockhart’s, A. Costofino, R. Thursitt.

The chort of Nicholas Within was my guide and I raised a dome on the where-withouts of Michan: by awful tors my wellworth building sprang sky spearing spires, cloud cupoled campaniles.

Further this.

By fineounce and imposts I got and grew and by grossscruple gat I grown outreachesly: murage and lestage were my mains for Ouerlord’s tithing and my drains for render and prender the doles and the tribute: I was merely out of my mint with all the percussors on my braincap till I struck for myself and muched morely by token: to Sirrherr of Gambelden old ruddy money and to Madame of Pitymount I loue yous.

Paybads floriners moved in hugheknots against us and I matt them, pepst to papst, barthelemew: milreys (mark!)

onfell and (luc!)

I arose, Daniel in Leonden.

Bulafests onvied me, Corkcuttas graachted.

Atabey!

The soord on Whencehislaws was mine and mine the prusshing stock of Allbrecht the Bearn.

I wegschicked Duke Wellinghof to reshockle Roy Shackleton: Walhalloo, Walhalloo, Walhalloo, mourn in plein!

I braved Brien Berueme to berow him against the Loughlins, all her tolkies shraking: Fugabollags!

Lusqu’au bou!

If they had ire back of eyeball they got danage on front tooth: theres were revelries at ridottos, here was rivalry in redoubt.

Under law’s marshall and warschouw did I thole till lead’s plumbate, ping on pang, reliefed me.

I made praharfeast upon acorpolous and fastbroke down in Neederthorpe.

I let faireviews in on slobodens but ranked rothgardes round wrathmindsers: I bathandbaddend on mendicity and I cowcured off the unoculated.

Can you tell their tale whom I filled ad liptum on the plain of Soulsbury?

With three hunkered peepers and twa and twas!

For sleeking beauties I spinned their nightinveils, to slumbred beasts I tummed the tief air.

Round the musky moved a murmel but mewses whinninaird and belluas zoomed: tendulcis tunes like water parted fluted up from the westinders while from gorges in the east came the strife of ourangoontangues.

All in my thicville Escuterre ofen was thorough fear but in the meckling of my Burgh Belvaros was the site forbed: I meade uisance of wellpressed champdamors and peddled freely in the scrub: tuberclerosies I reized spudfully from the murphyplantz Hawkinsonia and berriberries from the pletoras of the Irish shou.

I heard my libertilads making fray through their curraghcoombs and my trueblues herusalaming before Wailingtone’s Wall: out of fundness for the outozone I carried them and curried them in my Putzemdown cars to my Kommeandine hotels: I richmounded the rainelag in my bathytub of roundwood and conveyed it with cheers and cables, rearing mighty shouts, through my longertubes of elm: I made sprouts fontaneously from Philuppe Sobriety in the coupe that’s cheyned for noon inebriates: when they weaned weary of that bibbing I made infusion more infused: sowerpacers of the vinegarth, obtemperate unto me!

When you think me in my coppeecuffs lookinware would you meckamockame, as you pay in caabmand’s sheltar tot the ites like you corss the tees.

Wherefore watch ye well!

For, while I oploocked the first of Janus’s straight, I downsaw the last of Christmas steps: syndic podesteril and on the rates, I for indigent and intendente: in Forum Foster I demonsthrenated my folksfiendship, enmy pupuls felt my burk was no worse than their brite: Sapphrageta and Consciencia were undecidedly attached to me but the maugher machrees and the auntieparthenopes my schwalby words with litted spongelets set their soakeypokeys and botchbons afume: Fletcher-Flemmings, elizaboth, how interquackeringly they rogated me, their golden one, I inhesitant made replique: Mesdememdes to leursieuresponsor: And who in hillsaide, Don’t you let flyfire till you see their whites of the bunkers’ eyes?

Mr Answers: Bringem young, bringem young, bringem young!

in my bethel of Solyman’s I accouched their rotundaties and I turnkeyed most insultantly over lutetias raped in the lock: I gave bax ob biscums to the jacobeaters and pottage bakes to the esausted: I dehlivered them with freakandesias by the constant droppings from my smalls instalmonths while I titfortotalled up their farinadays for them on my slataper’s slate with my chandner’s chauk: I jaunted on my jingelbrett rapt in neckloth and sashes and I beggared about the amnibushes like belly in a bowle.

In the humanity of my heart I sent out heywheywomen to refresh the ballwearied and then, doubling megalopolitan poleetness, my great great greatest of these charities, devaleurised the base fellows for the curtailment of their lower man: with a slog to square leg I sent my boundary to Botany Bay and I ran up a score and four of mes while the Yanks were huckling the Empire: I have been reciping om omominous letters and widelysigned petitions full of pieces of pottery about my monumentalness as a thingabolls and I have been inchanting causeries to the feshest cheoilboys so that they are allcalling on me for the song of a birtch.

Attent!

Couch hear!

I have becket my vonderbilt hutch in sunsmidnought and at morningrise I was encampassed of mushroofs: the more secretly bi built, the more openly palastered.

Rest and bethinkful, with licence, thanks.

I considered the lilies on the veldt and unto Balkis did I disclothe mine glory.

Lo, I have looked long upon my pumpadears in their easancies and my drummers have tattled tall tales of me in the land.

And this.

This mayds my taughters and these man my son, from my fief of the Villa of the Ostmannorum to Thorstan’s, recte Thomars Sraid, and from Huggin Pleaze to William Inglis his house, that man de Loundres, in all their barony of Saltus, bonders and foeburghers, helots and zelots, strutting oges and swaggering macks, the darsy jeamses, the drury joneses, redmaids and bleucotts, in hommage and felony, all who have received tickets, fair home overcrowded, tidy but very little furniture, respectable, whole family attends daily mass and is dead sick of bread and butter, sometime in the militia, mentally strained from reading work on German physics, shares closet with eight other dwellings, more than respectable, getting comfortable parish relief, wage-earner freshly shaven from prison, highly respectable, planning new departure in Mountgomery cyclefinishing, eldest son will not serve but peruses Big-Man-up-in-the-Sky scraps, anoopanadoon lacking backway, quasi respectable, pays ragman in bones for faded windowcurtains, staircase continually lit up with guests, particularly respectable, house lost in dirt and blocked with refuse, getting on like Roe’s distillery on fire, slovenly wife active with the jug, in business for himself, has a tenth illegitimate coming, partly respectable, following correspondence courses, chucked work over row, both cheeks kissed at levee by late marquess of Zetland, sharing closet which is profusely written over with eleven other subscribers, once respectable, open hallway pungent of Baltic dishes, bangs kept woman’s head against wall thereby disturbing neighbours, private chapel occupies return landing, removal every other quarter day, case one of peculiar hopelessness, most respectable, nightsoil has to be removed through snoring household, eccentric naval officer not quite steady enjoys weekly churchwarden and laugh while reading foreign pictorials on clumpstump before door, known as the trap, widow rheumatic and chars, haunted, condemned and execrated, of dubious respectability, tools too costly pledged or uninsured, reformed philanthropist whenever feasible takes advantage of unfortunates against dilapidating ashpits, serious student is eating his last dinners, floor dangerous for unaccompanied old clergymen, thoroughly respectable, many uncut pious books in evidence, nearest watertap two hundred yards’ run away, fowl and bottled gooseberry frequently on table, man has not had boots off for twelve months, infant being taught to hammer flat piano, outwardly respectable, sometimes hears from titled connection, one foot of dust between banister and cracked wall, wife cleans stools, eminently respectable, ottawark and regular loafer, should be operated on would she consent, deplorable rent in roof, claret cellar cobwebbed since the pontificate of Leo, wears drill trousers and collects rare buddhas, underages very treacly and verminous have to be separated, sits up with fever cases for one and threepence, owns two terraces (back to back breeze), respectable in every way, harmless imbecile supposingly weakminded, a sausage every Sunday, has a staff of eight servants, outlook marred by ne’er-do-wells using the laneway, lieabed sons go out with sisters immediately after dark, has never seen the sea, travels always with her eleven trunks of clothing, starving cat left in disgust, the pink of respectability, resting after colonial service, labours at plant, the despair of his many benefactresses, calories exclusively from Rowntrees and dumplings, one bar of sunlight does them all January and half February, the V. de V’s (animal diet) live in fivestoried semidetached but rarely pay tradesmen, went security for friend who absconded, shares same closet with fourteen similar cottages and an illfamed lodginghouse, more respectable than some, teawidow pension but held to purchase, inherited silk hat from father-in-law, head of domestic economy never mentioned, query how they live, reputed to procure, last four occupants carried out, mental companionship with mates only, respectability unsuccessfully aimed at, copious holes emitting mice, decoration from Uganda chief in locked ivory casket, grandmother has advanced alcoholic amblyopia, the terror of Goodmen’s Field, and respected and respectable, as respectable as respectable can respectably be, though their orable amission were the herrors I could have expected, all, let them all come, they are my vill villeins, with chartularies I have talledged them.

Wherfor I will and firmly command, as I willed and firmly commanded, upon my royal word, and cause the great seal now to be affixed, that from the farthest of the farther of their fathers to their children’s children’s children they do inhabit it and hold it for me and my heirs, unencumbered, firmly and quietly, amply and honestly, and with all the liberties and free customs which the men of Tolbris, a city of Tolbris, have at Tolbris, in the county of their city and through whole my land.

Hereto my vouchers: knife and snuffbuchs.

Fee for farm.

Enwreak us wrecks.

Struggling forlongs I have livramentoed, milles on milles of mancipelles.

Mined outskirts benlewd, men breaches portpoinsed: in morgenattics litt I hope, in seralcellars louched I bleakmealers: on my siege of my mighty I was parciful of my subjects, but in streetwauks that are darkest I debelled em superb: I deemed the drugtails in my pettycourts and domstered dustyfeets in my husinclose: at Guy’s they were swathed, at Foulkes’s slashed, the game for a Gomez, the loy for a Lynch: if I was magmonimoss as staidy lavgiver I revolucanized by my eructions: on hye and bye wayseeds I scattered em, in my graben fields sew sowage I gathered em: in Sheridan’s Circle my wits repose, in black pitts of the pestered Lenfant he is dummed.

Hearts of Oak, may ye root to piece!

Rechabites, obstain!

Clayed sheets, pineshrouded, wake not, walk not!

Sigh lento, Morgh!

Quo warranto has his greats my soliven and puissant lord V. King regards for me and he has given to me my necknamesh (flister it!)

which is second fiddler to nomen.

These be my genteelician arms.

At the crest, two young frish, etoiled, flappant, devoiled of their habiliments, vested sable, withdrewers argent.

For the boss, a coleopter, pondant, partifessewise, blazoned sinister, at the slough, proper.

In the lower field, a terce of lanciers, shaking unsheathed shafts, their arms crossed in saltire, embusked, sinople.

Motto, in letters portent: Hery Crass Evohodie.

Idle were it, repassing from elserground to the elder disposition, in so and such a matter as me it so besitteth, to inquire whether I, huddled til summone, be the massproduct of teamwork or I, draggedasunder, the forced generation of group marriage or carried of cloud from land of locust, in ouzel galley borne, three surtouts wripped up in itchother’s, two twin pritticoaxes lived as one, troubled in trine or dubildin too, for, holocryptogam of my essenses, abram nude be I or roberoyed with the faineans or Feejeean grafted ape on merfisch, surrounded by obscurity, most surely I pretend and reclam by my virtus of creation and by boon of promise my naturalborn freeman’s journeyman right and my Other Church’s inher lights to opt for simultaneous.

Till daybow break and showshadows flee.

Thus be Hek!

Verily!

Verily!

Time, place!

— What is your numb?

Bun!

— Who gave you that numb?

Poo!

— Have you put in all your spare pennies?

I’m listening.

Sree!

— Keep clear of propennies!

Fore!

Mr Televox, Mrs Taubiestimm, and invisible friends!

I maymay mean to say.

Annoyin part of it was, had my faithful Fulvia, following the wiening courses of this world, turned her back on her ways to go on uphills upon search of louvers, brunette men of Earalend, Chief Nightcloud by the Deeps and Chief Goes-in-Blackwater and Chief Northpaw and Chief Brown Poole, or, again, had Fluvia, amber whitch she was, left her chivily crookcrook crocus bed at the bare suggestions of some prolling bywaymen from Moabit who would have abused of her, the foxrogues, there might accrue advantage to ask wher in pellmell her deceivers sinned.

Yet know of old it was vastly otherwise which I have heard it by mmummy goods waif, as I chiefly endmost hartyly aver, for Fulvia Fluvia, iddle woman to the plusneeborn, ever did ensue tillstead the things that pertained unto fairness, this wharom I am fawned on, that which was loost.

Even so.

For I waged love on her: and spoiled her undines: and she wept.

O my lors!

— Till we meet!

— Ere we part!

— Tollollall!

— This time a hundred years!

But I was firm with her.

And I did take the reached of my delights, my jealousy, ymashkt, beyashmakt, earswathed, snoutsnooded, and did raft her flumingworthily and did leftlead her overland the pace, from lachsleap up to liffsloup, tiding down, as portreeve should, whimpering by Kevin’s creek and Hurdlesfjord and Gardener’s Mall, long rivierside drive, embankment large, to Ringsend Flott and Ferry, where she began to bump a little bit, my dart to throw: and there, by wavebrink, on strond of south, with mace to masthigh, taillas Cowhowling, quailless Highjakes, did I upreize my magicianer’s puntpole, the tridont sired a tritan stock, farruler, and I bade those pollyfizzyboisterous seas to retire with hemselves from os (rookwards, thou seasea stamoror!)

and I abridged with domfine norsemanship till I had done abate her maidan race, my baresark bride, and knew her fleshly when with all my bawdy did I her whorship, min bryllupswibe: Heaven, he hallthundered; Heydays, he flung blissforhers.

And I cast my tenspan joys on her, arsched overtupped, from bank of call to echobank, by dint of strongbow (Galata!

Galata!

), so streng we were in one, malestream in she-gulf: and to ringstresse with iern of Erin I thumbed her and tradesman-marked her lieflang mine for all and singular, iday, igone, imorgens and for ervigheds (base your peak, you!

you, strike your flag!

what screech of shippings!

what low of dampfbulls!

): goosegaze annoynted uns, canailles canzoned; from Livland, hock zivios, from Lettland, skall vives!

With Impress of Asias and Queen Columbia for her pairanymphs and the singing sands for herbrides’ music, me to she her shyblumes lifted and I pudd a name and wedlock boltoned round her the which to carry till her grave, Appa Lippia Pluviabille, my durdin dearley, whiles I herr lifer amstell and been: I chained her chastemate to grippe fiuming snugglers, her chambrett I bestank so to spunish furiosos: I was her hochsized, her cleaveinto, her everest, she was my annointed, my laurelled, my proved: who cut her ribbons when nought my prowes?

who expoused that havenliness to beachalured ankerrides when not I, freipforter?

in trinity huts they met my dama, pick of their poke for me: when I forgether ’twas my sumbad, if I farseeker itch my list: had I not workit in my cattagut with dogshunds’ crotts to clene and had I not giftet of my coataways, constantonoble’s aim?

and, fortiffed by my right as man of capitol, I did umgyrdle her about, my vermincelly vinegarette, with all loving kindness as far as in man’s might it lay and enfranchised her to liberties of fringes: and I gave until my lilienyounger turkeythighs soft goods and hardware (catalogue, passim) and fine ladderproof hosiery lines (see stockingers’ raiment) and cocquette coiffs (see Agnes’ hats) and pennigsworths of the best of taste of knaggy jets and silvered waterroses and geegaws of my pretty novelties and wispywaspy frocks, trancepearances of redferns and lauralworths, such as women cattle bare and peltries piled and samite supple, rosselling gowns, the peak of Pim’s and Slyne’s and Sparrow’s, loomends day lumineused, luxories on looks, La Primamère, Pyrrha Pyrrhine, Or de Reinebeau, Sourire d’Hiver, and a crinoline, wide a shire, and pattens for her trilibies that know she might the tortuours of the boots and bedes of wampun with to toy and a murcery glaze of shard to mirrow for all daintiness by me and theetime, the cupandnaggin hour: and I wound around my swanchen’s neckplace a school of schells of moyles marine to swing their saysangs in her silents: and, upping her as king’s count, her aldritch cry oloss unheading, what though exceeding bitter, I pierced her beak with order of the Danabrog (Cunnig’s great!

Soll leve!

Soll leve!

): with mare’s grease cressets at Leonard’s and Dunphy’s and Madonna lanthorns before quintacasas and tallonkindles spearhead syngeing nickendbookers and mhutton lightburnes dipdipping-downes in blackholes, the tapers of the topers and his buntingpall at Hoist, for days there was no night for nights were days and our folk had rest from Blackheathen and the pagans from the prince of pacis: what was trembling sod quaked no more, what were frozen loins were stirred and lived: gone the septuor, dark deadly dismal doleful desolate dreadful desperate, no more the tolvmaans, bloody gloomy hideous fearful furious alarming terrible horrible mournful sorrowful frightful appalling: peace, perfect peace: and I hung up at Yul my duindleeng lunas, helphelped of Kettil Flashnose, for the souperhore of my frigid one, coloumba mea, frimosa mea, in Wastewindy Tarred Strate and Elgin’s marble halles, lamping limp from black to block, through all Livania’s volted ampire, from anodes to cathodes and from the topazolites of Mourne, Wykinloeflare, by Arklow’s sapphire siomen’s lure and Wexterford’s hook and crook lights to the polders of Hy Kinsella: avenyue ceen my peurls ahumming, the crown to my estuarine munipicence?

three firths of the sea I swept with draughtness and all ennempties I bottled em up in bellomport: when I stabmarooned jack and maturin I was a bad boy’s bogey but it was when I went on to sankt piotersbarq that they gave my devil his dues: what is seizer can hack in the old wold a sawyer may hew in the green: on the island of Breasil the wildth of me perished and I took my plowshure sadly, feeling pity for me sored: where bold O’Connee weds on Alta Mahar, the tawny sprawling beside that silver burn, I sate me and settled with the little crither of my hearth: her intellects I charmed with I calle them utile thoughts, her turlyhyde I plumped with potatums for amiens pease in plenty: my biblous beadells shewed her triumphs of craftygild pageantries, loftust Adam duffed our cousterclother, Conn and Owel with cortoppled baskib, Sire Noeh Guinnass exposant of his bargeness and Lord Joe Starr to hump the body of the camell: I screwed the Emperor down with ninepins gaelic with sixpenny-hapennies for his hanger on: my worthies were bissed and trissed from Joshua to Godfrey but my processus prophetarum they would have plauded to perpetuation.

Moral: book to besure, see press.

— He’s not all buum and bully.

— But his members handly food him.

— Steving’s grain for’s greet collegtium.

— The S.S. Padraic’s in the harbour.

And after these things I fed her, my carlen, my barelean linsteer, upon spiceries for her garbage breath, italics of knobbylauch and the rich morsel of the marrolebone and shains of garleeks and swinespepper and gothakrauts and pinkee dillisks, primes of meshallehs, and subtleties in jellywork, come the feast of Saint Pancreas, and shortcake nutrients for Paas and Pingster’s pudding, bready and nuttalled, and potted fleshmeats from stove dampkookin and the drugs of Kafa and Jelapa and shallots out of Ascalon, feeding her food convenient herfor, to pass then into earth: and to my saffronbreathing mongoloid, the skinsyg, I gave Biorwik’s powlver and Uliv’s oils, unguents of cuticure, for the swarthy searchall’s face on her and handewers and groinscrubbers and a carrycam to tease her tuzzy out, the brown but combly, and a mopsa’s broom to duist her sate and clubmoss and wolvesfoot for her more moister wards (amazing efficiencies!

): and for my shopsoiled doveling, when weeks of kindness skinly civicised, in our saloons esquirial with fineglas bowbays, draped embrasures and giltedged librariums I did devise my prizeless telltale sports at evenbread to wring her withers limberly, wheatears, slapbang, drapier-cut-dean, bray, nap, spinado and ranter-go-round: we had our lewd mayers and our lairdie meiresses kiotowing and smuling fullface on us out of their framous latenesses, oilclothed over for cohabitation and allpointed by Hind: Tamlane the Cussacke, Dirk Wettingstone, Pieter Stuyvesant, Outlawrie O’Niell, Mrs Currens, Mrs Reyson-Figgis, Mrs Dattery and Mrs Pruny-Quetch: in hym we trust, footwash and sects principles, apply to the overseer, Amos five six: she had dabblingtime for exhibiting her grace of aljambras and duncingk the bloodanoobs in her vauxhalls while I, dizzed and dazed by the lumpty thumpty of our interloopings, fell clocksure off my ballast: in our windtor palast it vampared fore elenden, we lubded Sir Gudd for the sleep and the ghoasts: she chauffed her feusies at my Wigan’s jewels while she skalded her mermeries on my Snorryson’s sagos: in paycook’s thronsaale she domineered: lecking icies off the dormer panes all admired her in camises: on Rideau Row Duanna dwells, you merk well what you see: let wellth were I our pantocreator would theirs be tights for the gods: in littleritt reddinghats and cindery yellows and tinsel and glitter and bibs under hoods: I foredreamed for her and, more than fallmaked, I prevened for her in the haunts that joybelled frail light-a’-leaves for sturdy traemen: Pelves ad Hombres Sumus: I said to the shiftless prostitute, Let me be your fodder; and to roadies and prater brothers, Chau, Camerade!

Evangel of good tidings, omnient as the Healer’s word, for the lost, loathsome and whomsoever will: who, in regimentation through liberal donation in coordination for organisation of their installation and augmentation plus some annexation and amplification without precipitation towards the culmination in latification of what was formerly their utter privation, competence, cheerfulness, usefulness and the meed, shall in their second Adams all be made alive.

My tow tugs steered down canal grand, my lighters lay longside on Regalia Water: and I built in Urbs in Rure for minne elskede, my shiny brows, under astrolobe from my upservatory, an erdcloset with showne ejector wherewithin to be squatquit in most convenience from her sabbath needs, when open noise should stilled be: did not I festfix with mortarboard my unniversiries, wholly, rational and gottalike, sorefister agen sowfister, life sizars all?

was not I rosetted on two stelas of little egypt?

had not I rockcut reders, hieros, gregos and democriticos, tricastellated, bimedallised?

and by my sevendialled changing charties Hibernska Ulitzas made not I to pass through twelve Threadneedles and Newgade and Vicus Veneris to cooinsight?

my camels’ walk, kolossa!

kolossa!, no porte sublimer benared my ghates: Oi polled ye Many but my fews were chousen (voter, voter, early voter, he was never too oft for Old Sarum): terminals four my staties were, the Geenar, the Greasouwea, the Debwickweck, the Migreawis: and I set up twinminsters, the pro and the con, my stavekirks wove so norcely of peeled wands and attachattouchy floodmud, now all loosebrick and stonefest, freely masoned, arked for the covenanters and shinners’ rifuge: descend from above on us, Hagiasofia of Astralia, our orisons thy nave and absedes, our aeone tone aeones thy studvaast vault!

Hams, circuitise!

Shemites, retrace!

horns, hush!

no barkeys!

hereround is’t holied!

all truant trulls made I comepull, all rubbeling gnomes I pushed, gowgow: Cassels, Redmond, Gandon, Deane, Shepperd, Smyth, Neville, Heaton, Stoney, Foley, Farrell, Vnost, with Thorneycroft and Hogan too: sprids serve me, gobelins guard!

tect my tileries (O tribes!

O gentes!

), keep my keep, the peace of my four great ways!

oathiose infernals, to Booth Salivation!

arcane celestials, to Sweatenburg’s Welhell!

and thirdly, for evigs, I did reform and restore for my smuggy piggiesknees, my sweet coolocked, my auburn coyquailing one, her paddypalace on the crossknoll with massgo bell, sixton clashcloshant, duominous and muezzatinties to commind the fitful: doom adimdim adoom adimadim: and the oragel of the lauds to tellforth’s glory: and I added thereunto a shallow laver to slub out her hellfire and posied windows for her oriel house: gospelly pewmillieu, christous pewmillieu: ze zackbutts babazounded, ze ollguns tararulled: and she sass her nach, chillybombom and forty bonnets, upon the altarstane.

May all have mossyhonours!

— Hoke!

— Hoke!

— Hoke!

— Hoke!

And wholehail, snaefell, dreardrizzle or sleetshowers of blessing, where it froze in chalix eller swum in the vestry, with fairskin book and ruling rod, vien of my vergin page, her chastener ever, I did learn my little anna countrymouse in alpabeater cameltemper, from alderbirk to tannenyou, with myraw rattan atter dundrum, ooah oyir oyir oyir: my seven wynds I trailed to maze her and ever a wynd had saving closes and all these closes flugged with the gust, hoops for her, hats off for him and reruffles through Neeblow’s garding.

And that was why Blabus was razing his wall and eltering the suzannes of his nighboors.

And I did spread before my Livvy, where Lord Street lolls and ladies linger and Cammomile Pass cuts Primrose Rise and Coney Bend bounds Mulbreys Island but never a blid had bledded or bludded since long agore when the whole blighty acre was bladey well pessovered, my selvage mats of lecheworked lawn, my carpet gardens of Guerdon City, with chopes pyramidous and mouselimes and beaconphires and colossets and pensilled turrisses for the busspleaches of the summiramies and esplanadas statuesque and templeogues: the pardonell of Maynooth, Fra Teobaldo, Nielsen, rare admirable, Jean de Porteleau, Conall Gretecloke, Guglielmus Caulis and the eiligh ediculous Passivucant (glorietta’s inexcelsiored!

): for irkdays and for folliedays till the comple anniums of calendarias, gregoromaios and gypsyjuliennes as such are pleased of theirs to walk: and I planted for my own hot lisbing lass a quickset vineyard and rigs of barlow and bowery nooks and greenwished villas and pampos animos and (N.I.)

necessitades iglesias and pons for aguaducks, a hawthorndene, a feyrieglenn, the hallaw vall, the dyrchace, Finmark’s Howe, and I fenced it about with huge Chesterfield elms and Kentish hops against budmonth and gleanermonth with a magicscene wall (rimrim!

rimrim!)

for a Queen’s Garden of her Phoenix: and (hush!

hush!)

I brewed for my alpine plurabelle, wigwarming wench (speakeasy!

), my granvilled brandold Dublin lindub, the free, the froh, the frothy freshener, the pusspuss pussyfoot, to split the spleen of her maw: and I laid down before the trotters of my eblanite my stonybattered waggonways, my nordsoud circulums, my eastmoreland and westlandmore, running boullawards and syddenly parading (hearsemen, opslo!

nuptiallers, get storting!)

whereon, in mantram of truemen like yahoomen (expect till dutc cundoctor summoneth him all fahrts to pay, velkommen all hankinhunkn in this vogn of Hoseyeh!

), claudesdales with arabinstreeds, Roamer Reich’s rickyshaws with Hispain’s king’s trompateers, madridden mustangs, buckarestive bronchos, postershays and turnintaxis and tall tall tilburys and nod nod noddies, others gigging gaily, some sedated in sedans, my priccoping gents aroger, aroger, my damsells softsidesaddled covertly, covertly, and Lawdy Dawe a perch behind, the mule and the hinny and the jennet and the mustard nag and piebald shjelties and skewbald awknees steppit lively for her pleashadure (lift ye the left and rink ye the right!

): and she lafaughed in her diddydid domino to the switcheries of the whip.

Down with them!

Kick!

Playyup!

— Mattahah!

Marahah!

Luahah!

Joahanahanahana!

What was thass?

Fog was whaas?

Too mult sleepth.

Let sleepth.

But really now whenabouts?

Expatiate then how much times we live in!

Yes?

So, nat by night by naught by naket in those good old lousy days gone by (the days, shall we say?, of whom, shall we say?)

while kinderwardens minded their twinsbed, therenow theystood, the sycomores, all four of them, in their quartan agues, the majorchy, the minorchy, the everso and the fermentarian, with their ballyhooric blowreaper, titranicht by tetranoxst, at their pussycorners, and that old time pallyollogass, playing copers fearsome, with Gus Walker, the cuddy, and his poor old dying boosy cough, esker, newcsle, saggard, crumlin, dell me, donk, the way to wumblin, follow me beeline and you’re bumblin, esker, newcsle, saggard, crumlin, and listening, so gladdied up when nicechild Kevin Mary (who was going to be commandeering chief of the choirboys’ brigade the moment he grew up under all the auspices) irishsmiled in his milky way of cream dwibble and onage tustard and dessed tabbage, but so frightied out when badbrat Jerry Godolphing (who was hurrying to be cardinal scullion in a night refuge as bald as he was cured enough under all the hospitals) furrinfrowned down his wrinkly waste of methylated spirits, ick, and lemoncholy lees, ick, and pulverised rhubarbarorum, icky: night by silentsailing night while infantina Isobel (who will be blushing all day to be when she growed up one Sunday, Saint Holy and Saint Ivory, when she took the veil, the beautiful presentation nun, so barely twenty, in her pure coif, sister Isobel, and next Sunday, Mistlemas, when she looked a peach, the bountiful Samaritan, still as beautiful and still in her teens, nurse Saintette Isabelle, with stiffstarched cuffs, but on holiday, christmas, easter mornings, when she wore a wreath, the wonderful widow of eighteen springs, Madame Isa Veuve La Belle, so sad but lucksome in her boyblue’s long black with orange blossoming weeper’s veil), for she was the only girl they loved, as she is the queenly pearl you prize, because of the way the night that first we met she is bound to be—methinks, and not in vain—the darling of my heart, sleeping, in her april cot, within her singachamer, with her greengageflavoured candywhistle duetted to the crazyquilt, Isobel, she is so pretty, truth to tell, wildwood’s eyes and primarose hair, quietly, all the woods so wild, in mauves of moss and daphnedews, how all so still she lay, neath of the whitethorn, child of tree, like some losthappy leaf, like blowing flower stilled, as fain would she anon, for soon again ’twill be, win me, woo me, wed me, ah weary me, deeply, now evencalm lay sleeping: nowth upon nacht while in his tumbril wachtman Havelook Seequeerscenes from yonsides of the choppy, punkt by his curserbog, went long the grassgross bumpinstrass that henders the pubbel to pass, stowing his bottle in a bole for at whet his whuskle to stretch ecrooksman, sequestering for lovers’ lost propertied offices the leavethings from allpurgers’ night, og gneiss ogas gnasty, kikkers, brillers, knappers and bands, handshoon and strumpers, sminkysticks and eddiketsflaskers: wan fine night and the next fine night and last fine night while Kathareen the Slop in her native’s chambercushy, with dreamings of simmering my veal astore, was basquing to her pillasleep how she thawght a knogg came to the dowanstairs dour at that howr to peirce the yare and dowandshe went, schritt be schratt, to see was it Schweeps’s mingerals or Shuhorn the posht with a tillycramp for Hemself and Co, Esquara, or them four hoarsemen on their apolkaloops, Norreys, Soothbys, Yates and Welks, and, galorybit of the Sanes in Hevel, there was a crick up the stirkiss and when she ruz the cankle to see, galohery, downandshe went on her knees to blessersef that were knogging together like milkjuggles as if it was the wrake of the hapspurus or old King Gander O’Toole of the Mountains or his googoo goosth she seein, sliving off over the sawdust lobby out of the backroom, wan ter, that was everywans in turruns, in his honeymoon trim, holding up his fingerhals, with the clookey in his fisstball, tocher of davy’s, tocher of ivileagh, for her to whisht, you sowbelly, and the whites of his pious eyebulbs swearing her to silence and coort: each and every juridical sessions night whenas goodmen twelve and true at Fox and Geese in their numbered habitations tried Old Wireless overboord in their juremembers and whereas by reverendum they found him guilty of their and those imputations of fornicolopulation with two of his albowcrural correlations on whom he was said to have enjoyed by anticipation when schooling them in amown, mid grass, she sat, when man was, amazingly, frank, for their first conjugation, whose colours at standing up from the above were of a pretty carnation but, if really ’twere not so, of some deretane denudation with intent to excitation, caused by his retrogradation, among firearmed forces proper to this nation but apart from all titillation which, he said, was under heat pressure and a good mitigation without which in any case he insists upon being worthy of continued alimentation for him having displayed, he says, such grand toleration, reprobate so noted and all as he was, with his washleather sweeds and his smokingstump, for denying transubstantiation nevertheless in respect of his highpowered station, whereof more especially as probably he was meantime suffering genteel tortures from the best medical attestation, as he oftentimes did, having only strength enough, by way of festination, to implore or (I believe you might have said better) to complore with complete obsecration on everybody connected with him the curse of coagulation for, he tells me outside Sammon’s in King Street after two or three hours of close confabulation, by this pewterpint of Gilbey’s goatswhey which is his prime consolation, albeit involving upon the same no uncertain amount of esophagous regurgitation, he being personally unpreoccupied to the extent of a flea’s gizzard anent eructation, if he was still extremely offensive to a score and four nostrils’ dilatation still he was likewise, on he other side of him, for some nepmen’s eyes a delectation, as he asserts without the least alienation, so prays of his fault you would make obliteration but as for our friend behind the bars, though like Adam Find-later a man of high estimation, summing him up to be done, be what will of excess his exaltation, still we think with Sully there can be no right extinuation for contravention of common and statute legislation for which the fit remedy resides, for Mr Sully, in corporal amputation: so three months for Gubbs Jeroboam, the frothwhiskered pest of the park, as per act one, section two, schedule three, clause four of the fifth of King Jark, this sentence to be carried out tomorrowmorn by Nolans Volans at six o’clock shark, and may the yeastwind and the hoppinghail malt mercy on his seven honeymeads and his hurlyburlygrowth, Amen, says the clarke: niece by nice by neat by natty whilst mongst revery’s happy gardens nine with twenty Leixlip yearlings, darters all, had such a ripping time with gleeful cries of what is nice Toppingshaun made of made for and weeping like fun, him to be gone, for they were never happier, huhu, than when they were miserable, haha: in their bed of trial, on the bolster of hardship, by the glimmer of memory, under coverlets of cowardice, Albertus Nyanzer with Victa Nyanza, his mace of might mortified, her beautyfell hung up on a nail, he, Ur of our Fathers, she, our moddereen rue arue arue, they, ay, by the hokypoker and brazier, they are, as sure as Dinny drops into the dyke … A cry, off.

Where are we at all?

And whenabouts in the name of space?

I don’t understand.

I fail to say.

I dearsee you too.

House of the circulation of mead.

Garth of Fyon.

Scene and property plot.

Stagemanager’s prompt.

Interior of dwelling on outskirts of city.

Groove two.

Chamber scene.

Boxed.

Ordinary bedroom set.

Salmonpapered walls.

Back centre, empty Irish grate, Adam’s mantel, with wilting elopement fan, soot and tinsel, condemned.

North, wall with window, practicable.

Argentine in casement.

Vamp.

Pelmit above.

No curtains.

Blind drawn.

South, party wall.

Bed for two with strawberry bedspread, wicker-worker clubsessel and caneseated millikinstool.

Bookshrine without, facetowel upon.

Chair for one.

