"Yet it is fitting that you remain here, Diotima!"
said I.
"The priestess may not leave the temple.
You guard the sacred flame, in silence you guard the Beautiful, that I may find it again in you."
8 "You are right of course, it is better," she said, and her voice trembled, and the ether-blue eyes hid themselves in her handkerchief, that their tears, their despair might not be seen.
0 Bellarmin, my heart was near to breaking because I had made her blush so red.
"Friends!"
I cried, "preserve this angel for me.
I know nothing more, if I know her not.
O Heavens!
I dare not think for what I would be fit if I lost her."
"Rest easy, Hyperion!"
Notara interrupted me.
"Easy?"
I cried; "O you good people!
you can often give thought to how your garden will bloom and how good your harvest will be, you can pray for your grapevine—and shall I part without concern from what alone my soul serves?"
"No, my good friend!"
cried Notara, deeply moved, "no!
I do not ask that you part from her without concern!
no, by the divine innocence of your love!
you have my blessing, be sure of that!"
"You remind me," I cried quickly.
"She shall bless us, this dear mother, she shall bear witness for us with you all—come, Diotima!
your mother shall bless our union, until the beautiful society for which we hope joins us in marriage."
1 went down on one knee; and she, wide-eyed, blushing, smiling, and festive, sank down at my side too.
"For a long time," I cried, "O Nature!
has our life been at one with you, and the world that is ours is divinely young, like you and all your gods, through the power of love."
"In your groves we wandered," Diotima continued, "and were like you, by your springs we sat and were like you, there over the mountains we went, with your children the stars, like you.
"When we were far from each other," I cried, "when, like a whispering harp» our coming delight first sounded for us, when we found each other, when there was no more sleep for us, and all the tones in us awoke to the full harmony of life, divine Nature!
then were we ever like you, and so now, too, when we part and joy dies, we are like you, full of sorrow, yet good; therefore a pure mouth shall bear witness for us that our love is holy and eternal, as are you."
"I bear witness to it," her mother said.
"We bear witness to it," cried the others.
Now there was no word left for us to speak.
I felt my heart beat its   highest; I felt ripe for departure.
"Now I will go, my loved ones," I said, and life vanished from every face.
Diotima stood like a marble statue and I felt her hand die in mine.
I had killed everything around me; I was alone, and I reeled before the boundless silence in which my seething life had no holdfast.
"Ah!"
I cried, amy heart is fiery hot, and you all stand so coldly, my loved ones!
and do only the Gods of the household lend ear?— Diotima!
you are silent, you do not see!—oh, well for you that you do not see!"
"Go now," she sighed, "It must be; go now, dear heart!"
"O sweet music from those blissful lips!"
I cried, and stood like a suppliant before that lovely statue, "sweet music!
drift upon me once more, dawn once more, dear eyes of light!"
"Speak not so, beloved!"
she cried, "speak to me more seriously, speak to me with more heart!"
I wanted to restrain myself, but I was as in a dream.
"Alas!"
I cried, "it is no parting from which there is a return."
"You will kill her," cried Notara.
"See how gende she is, and you are so beside yourself."
I looked at her, and tears poured from my burning eyes.
"farewell, then, Diotima!"
I cried, "heaven of my love, farewell!— Let us be strong, dear friends!
Dear Mother, I gave you joy and sorrow, farewell, farewell!"
I staggered away.
Diotima alone followed me.
Evening had come, and the stars were rising in the sky.
We stopped and stood below the house.
There was an eternity within us, above us.
Delicate as the ether, Diotima embraced me.
"Silly!
what is parting?"
she whispered mysteriously, with the smile of an immortal.
"I feel differently now, too," I said, "and I do not know which of the two is a dream—my grief or my happiness."
"Both are," she answered, "and both are good."
"Perfect one!"
I cried, "I speak as you do.
Let us know each other by the starry sky.
Let that be the sign between me and you, so long as our lips are dumb."
"So be it!"
she said, with a lingering tone that I had never heard t before—it was her last.
Her image vanished from me in the twilight, and I do not know if it was really she when I turned back for the last  8 time and the fading figure hovered before my eyes a moment longer and then died into the night.
Hyperion to Bellarmin Why do I recount my grief to you, renew it, and stir up my restless youth in me again?
Is it not enough to have traveled once through mortality?
why do I not remain still in the peace of my spirit?
It is, my Bellarmin!
because every living breath that we draw remains dear to our heart, because all the transformations of pure Nature are part of her beauty too.
Our soul, when it puts off mortal experiences and lives only in blessed quietness—is it not like a leafless tree?
like a head without hair?
Dear Bellarmin!
I was quiet for a while; like a child, I lived under the still knolls of Salamis, oblivious to mankind's fate and striving.
Since then much has changed in my eyes, and now I have peace enough in me to remain quiet when I look at human existence.
O friend!
in the end the Spirit reconciles us with all things.
You will not believe it, at least not of me.
But I think that even my letters should suffice to show you that my soul is becoming more and more still every day.
And I will continue to tell you of it hereafter, until I have said enough for you to believe me.
Here are letters of Diotima's and mine, which we wrote to each other after my departure from Calaurea.
They are the most precious part of all that I entrust to you.
They are the warmest picture from those days of my life.
They tell you little of the clamor of war.
But hence all the more of my own life, and that is what you want.
Ah, and you must see, too, how greatly I was loved.
That I could never tell you, that only Diotima can tell.
Hyperion to Diotima I have awakened from the death of absence, my Diotima!
my spirit arises, strengthened, as from sleep.
I write to you from a summit in the mountains of Epidaurus.
There, far in the distance, your island looms faintly, Diotima!
out there, my stadium, where I must conquer or fall O Fbloponnesus!
O you springs of the Eurotas and Alpheus!
There we shall prove ourselves.
There, from the forests of Sparta, the ancient genius of the land will plunge down like an eagle with our army, as on roaring pinions.
My soul is filled with longing for high deeds and filled with love, Diotima, and in these Greek valleys my eye looks out as if to command by magic: "Rise once more, you cities of the gods!"
There must be a god in me, for I scarcely feel our separation.
Like the blessed shades of Lethe, my soul now lives with yours in heavenly freedom, and Fate has no more power over our love.
/ Hyperion to Diotima I am now deep in the Peloponnesus.
In the same hut where I spent last night, I once spent the night when, scarcely more than a boy, I traveled through these regions with Adamas.
How happily I sat here then, on the bench in front of the house, listening to die bells of arriving caravans tinkling in the distance and the plash of the nearby spring, which poured its silver waters into the basin under flowering acacias.
Now I am no less happy.
I rove through this land as through Dodona's grove, where the oaks resounded with oracles prophesying fame.
I see only deeds, past and to come, even though I wander from morning to night under the open sky.
Believe me, he who travels through this land and still tolerates a yoke on his neck, still becomes no Felopidas: he is empty-hearted or without understanding.
Can this sleep have lasted so long?
so long has time, dark and dumb as the River of Hell, glided on in drear sloth?
And yet all is ready.
The mountain folk hereabout are full of vengeful energy; they lie like a silent storm cloud that waits only for the wind to drive it on.
Diotima!
let me breathe the breath of God among them; let me speak a word to them from my heart, Diotima.
Fear not!
They will not be so savage.
I know untutored nature.
It  8 scorns reason, but it is close kin to enthusiasm.
H^whoJttit works with his whole soul never goes wrong.
He need not ponder, for no power is against him.
Hyperion to Diotima Tomorrow I shall be with Alabanda.
It is a delight for me to ask the way to Coron, and I ask more often than I need to.
I would take the wings of the sun and be off to him, yet I find myself inclined to hang back and ask, "What will he be like?"
The kingly youth!
why was I born after him?
why did I not spring from one cradle with him?
I cannot bear the difference between us.
Oh, why did I live in Tina like an idle shepherd boy, and did not even dream of such a man as he until he was already testing Nature by living work, already battling sea and air and all the elements?
was not a longing for the glory of action astir in me then too?
But I will catch up with him; I will be speedy.
By Heaven!
I am overripe for work.
My soul has only itself to be angry with if I do not soon free myself by some living action.
Noble maiden!
how could you not find me wanting?
How could you possibly love a being so empty of deeds?
Hyperion to Diotima I have him, dear Diotima!
My breast is light, and swift my sinews, ha!
and the future tempts me, as clear deep water tempts us to leap into it and cool our exuberant blood in that freshening bath.
But this is idle chatter.
We are dearer to each other than ever, my Alabanda and I.
We are freer together, and yet all the fullness and depth of life is there, as it used tobe.
Oh, how right the tyrants of old were to forbid such friendships as ours!
Then a man is as strong as a demigod and tolerates no insolence within his sphere!— It was evening when I entered his room.
He had just laid aside his work and was sitting by the window in a moonlit corner, commun-   ing with his thoughts.
I was standing in the dark, he did not recognize me, he looked toward me unconcernedly.
Heaven knows who he took me to be.
"Well, how goes it?
* he cried.
"Well enough,* I said.
But my dissembling availed nothing.
My voice was filled with secret delight.
"What is Ais?
* he sprang up; "is it you?
* "Yes, you blindman," I cried, and flew into his arms.
"Oh, now,* Alabanda cried at last, "now everything will be different, Hyperion!
* "So I think too,* said I, and happily shook his hand.
"And do you still know me,* Alabanda continued after a time, "have you still your old devout belief in Alabanda?
Magnanimous Hyperion!
things have not gone as well for me since, as they did when I felt the light of your love on me.
* "What!
* I cried, "can Alabanda ask this?
There was no pride in those words, Alabanda.
But it is a sign of this age that the old heroic nature goes begging for respect and die living human heart pines for a drop of love, like an orphan.
* "Dear youth!
* he cried; "I have grown old, that is all.
The slackness of life everywhere, and that matter of the old men with whom I wanted to put you to school in Smyrna—* "Oh, it is bitter,* I cried; "the deadly Goddess, the Nameless One whom men call Fate, has not spared even this man.
* Lights were brought, and again we looked at each other in cautiously loving scrutiny.
My dear friend's figure had changed very much since those days of hope.
His large, ever-animated eye shone upon me from his faded face like the midday sun from a pallid heaven.
"Dear youth!
* cried Alabanda, lovingly vexed to find me staring at him so, "enough of these dolorous looks, dear youth!
I know very well that I have sunk.
O my Hyperion!
I long so much for something great and true and, with you, I hope to find it.
You have outgrown me, you are freer and stronger than in the past, and, believe me!
it rejoices my heart.
I am the parched land, and you come like a fortunate storm—oh, it is glorious that you are here!
* "Stop!
* I said, "you drive me out of my senses, and we should not talk of ourselves at all until we are in the midst of life, among deeds.
* "Yes, yes!
* Alabanda cried joyously, "not until the horn sounds do the hunters feel like hunters.
*  8 "Will it start soon, then?"
I said "It will," cried Alabanda, "and I tell you, dear heart!
it will be quite a fire.
Ha!
may it reach to the tower's top and melt its vane and rage and swirl about it until it bursts and falls!—and you must not take offense at our allies.
I know that the good Russians would like to use us as firearms.
But let that pass!
when our strong Spartans have once learned in the field who they are and of what they are capable, when once we have conquered the Peloponnesus with them, then we will laugh in the North Pole's face and make a life of our own."
"A life of our own," I cried, "a new, an honorable life.
Were we born of the swamp, like a will-o'-the-wisp, or are we descended from^ the victors at Salamis?
How is this?
how, O free nature of the Greeks, have you become a maidservant?
how have you so declined, ancestral race, of which the divine images of Jupiter and Apollo were once only the copy?—But hear me, sky of Ionia!
hear me, my native soil, you that, half naked, dress yourself like a beggarwoman in the rags of your ancient glory; I will bear it no longer!"
"Oh Sun, who fostered us!"
cried Alabanda, "you shall witness it when our courage grows under our toil, when our resolution takes shape under the blows of Fate like iron under the hammer."
Each of us enflamed the other.
"And let no spot remain, none of the abject nonsense with which this century would smear us as the rabble do the walls!"
"Oh," cried Alabanda, "that is the reason war is so good—" "Yes, yes, Alabanda," I cried, "even as are all great undertakings, in which men's strength and spirit, not crutches and wings of wax, are the means.
There we take off the slaves' clothing branded with the mark which Fate would set upon us—" "There all that is frivolous, all that is forced, has no more currency," cried Alabanda, "we go stripped of ornaments as of chains, naked as in the races at Nemea, straight to the goal."
"To the goal," I cried, "where the young free state dawns and the pantheon of all Beauty arises from the soil of Greece."
Alabanda was silent for a while.
A new red rose into his face and his form grew as a plant refreshed.
"O Youth, Youth!"
he cried, "then will I drink from your spring; then will I live and love.
I am very joyful, Sky of Night," he went on   as if intoxicated, walking to the window, "your vault is over me like the foliage of a vine, and your stars hang down like clusters of grapes."
Hyperion to Diotima It is my good fortune that my life is completely occupied with work.
I should fall into one folly after another, so full is my soul, so am I intoxicated by the proud, the wonderful man who loves nothing but me and heaps all the humility that is in him upon me alone.
O Diotima!
this Alabanda has wept before me, has begged me like a child to forgive him for what he did to me in Smyrna.
Who am I, you loved ones, that I call you mine, that I dare to say, uThey are my own," that, like a conqueror, I stand between you and hold you as my treasure?
O Diotima!
O Älabanda!
noble, calmly great beings!
how much there is for me to accomplish, if I am not to flee from my happiness, from you?
Just now, while I was writing, I received your letter, dear one.
Grieve not, lovely being, grieve not!
Rreserve yourself unwithered by sorrow, for the future festivals of our country!
Diotima, preserve yourself for the shining celebration of Nature and for all the serene days set aside to honor the gods!
Do you not see Greece already?
Oh, do you not see how, rejoicing in their new neighbor, the eternal stars smile over our towns and groves, how the ancient ocean, when it sees our people wandering happily along the shore, remembers the beautiful Athenians and speeds good fortune to us again, as then it did to its favorites, on rejoicing waves?
O soulful maiden!
you are so beautiful already!
when the true climate nourishes you at last, in what enchanting glory will you not flower!
Diotima to Hyperion I had shut myself up indoors most of the time since you went away, dear Hyperion!
Today I went out again.
9 In the sweet February air I gathered life, and I bring you what I gathered.
It still did me good, die fresh warming of the sky; I still felt in sympathy with the new joy of the plant world, ever pure, ever the same, where all things grieve and rejoice again in their time.
Hyperion!
O my Hyperion!
then why do not we too walk the quiet paths of life?
They are holy names, winter and spring and summer and autumn!
yet we know them not.
It is not a sin to grieve in spring?
Why do we, then?
Forgive me!
Earth's children live through die sun alone; I live through you; I have other joys, so is it any wonder if I have other griefs?
and must I grieve?
must I?
Brave one!
loved one!
shall I wither while you shine?
shall my ear i t grow weary when the joy erf victory wakes in your every vein?
Had I heard in times past that a Greek youth had risen to raise our good people out of their shame, to give them back the maternal Beauty from which they are sprung, how I should have started from the dream of childhood and thirsted for the image of one so precious!
and now that he is there, now that he is mine, can I still weep?
Oh, the silly girl!
is it not true?
is he not the glorious one, and is he not mine!
O you shadows of a blessed time!
you my beloved memories!
Yet it seems as if it was scarcely yesterday, that magical evening when the sacred stranger came to me for the first time, when, like a grieving genius, he shone into the shadows of the wood where the carefree maiden sat in the dream of youth—in the air erf May he came, in the enchanting May air erf Ionia, and it made him bloom all the more, it waved his hair, opened his lips like flowers, dissolved sorrow in smiles, and O you ray£ erf heaven!
how you shone on me from those eyes, from those intoxicating springs where in the shadow of screening brows eternal life shimmers and wells!— Merciful Gods!
how beautiful he became with his gaze upon me!
how the whole youth, grown a span taller, stood there in easy strength, save that his dear, modest arms dropped down as if they were nothing!
and how, then, he looked up in rapture, as if I had flown into the sky and were no longer there, ah!
how, aware of me again, his eye shone bright as Phoebus through the darkening tears and, smiling, he blushed with inborn grace to ask me, "Is it you?
is it you indeed?"
And why did he come to me with thoughts so devout, so full of dear superstition?
why did he first stand with bowed head, why was the divine youth so frill erf shyness and grief?
His genius was too blessed to remain alone, and the world too poor to comprehend him.
Oh, it was a dear image, woven erf greatness and sorrow!
But now it is otherwise!
the sorrowing is over!
He has found work to do, he is sick no longer!— I was full of sighs when I began to write to you, my beloved!
Now I am pure joy.
To talk of you has been to grow happy.
And look!
even so shall it remain.
Farewell!
Hyperion to Diotima We have managed to celebrate your birthday, beautiful being!
before the uproar begins.
It was a heavenly day.
The lovely springtime wafted and shone from the East, conjured your name from us as it conjures the flowers from the trees, and all the blessed secrets of love took my breath away.
My friend had never known of such a love as ours, and it was ravishing to see how attentive the proud man became and how his eye and his spirit glowed as they strove to apprehend your image, your being.
"Oh," he cried at last, "our Greece is well worth fighting for when it still bears such offspring!"
"Yes indeed, my Alabanda," said I; "then we go joyfully into battle, then a divine fire drives us on to do high deeds when our spirit is rejuvenated by the image of such natures, then we run for no petty goal, then we are not concerned for this thing and that thing, do not tinker with outsides, unheeding the spirit, nor drink the wine for the .cup's sake, then we will not rest, Alabanda, until the ecstasy of the Genius is a secret no longer, when all eyes are transformed into triumphal arches from which man's spirit, long absent, shines forth out of error and sufferings and greets the paternal ether in the joy of victory.—Ha!
let no one think to know our people, as they are to be, from their flag alone; everything must be rejuvenated, everything be changed from the ground up; pleasure must be full erf seriousness, and all work gleeful!
nothing, not even the least and most commonplace of things, must be without spirit and the gods!
9 Love and hate and every tone from us must make the commoner world wonder, not a single moment must ever dare to remind us of the lowly past!"
Hyperion to Diotima The volcano is erupting.
The Turks are besieged in Coron and Modon and we are pushing on against the Peloponnesus with our mountaineers.
Now all depression is ended, Diotima, and my spirit is firmer and swifter since I am occupied with vital work and yes!
I now even have a daily schedule.
I begin with the sun.
I go out to where my troops are lying in the shadow of the woods and greet the thousand clear eyes that now open to me with wild affection.
An awakening army!
I know of nothing like it and all the life of towns and villages is like a swarm of bees in comparison.
Man cannot hide it from himself: once he was happy, like the deer in the forest, and even now, after untold years, there rises in us a longing for the days of the primal world, when he roved over the earth like a god, before I know not what tamed man, and, instead of walls and dead wood, the soul of the World, sacred Air, still wrapped him in its universal presence.
Diotima!
I am often filled with wonder when I go about among my carefree men and one after another stands up as if sprung from the earth and stretches himself toward the dawn, and among the martial groups the crackling flame rises, where the mother sits with the freezing infant, where die restoring dish is cooking, while the horses, sniffing the day, snort and whinny, and the wood resounds with shattering military music, and everywhere glitters and rings with weapons—but these are words, and the unique pleasure of such a life cannot be told.
Then my troop gathers eagerly around me, and it is wonderful how even the oldest and most recalcitrant respect me, despite my youth.
We become more and more intimate, and many of them tell me what their lives have been, and my heart often swells with their   so various fates.
Then I begin to speak of better days, and their eyes open wide and shine when they think of the covenant that will unite us, and the proud image of the free state that is soon to be looms before them.
All for one and one for all!
There is a joyous spirit in the words, and it takes possession of my men, too, like a divine decree.
O Diotima!
to see how their stubborn natures are softened by hopes, and all their pulses beat more strongly, and the burdened brow is smoothed and cleared by planning!
to stand there in a sphere of men, surrounded by faith and joy—-that is more, far more, than to behold earth and sky and sea in all their glory.
Then I drill them in weapons and marching until toward noon.
The happy mood makes them eager pupils, as it makes me a teacher.
Now they stand close together in the Macedonian phalanx, moving only their arms; now like rays they fly in different directions to more hazardous combat in separate squads, where their flexible strength changes with every position and each is his own general, then assemble again in a place of safety—-and always, wherever they go or stand in this sort of war dance, before their eyes and mine floats the image of the tyrant's cohorts and the field of real battle.
Then, when the sun shines hotter, we hold council deep in the wood, and it is a joy thus in quiet thought to determine our great future.
We strip chance of its power; we^jnasterjdestiny.
We let resistance arise as suits our purpose; we lure the enemy into actions for which we are prepared.
Or we bide our time and appear to be afraid, and let him come nearer until he exposes his head to our blow, or we utterly disconcert him with our speed, and that is my panacea.
But the more experienced physicians do not hold with such a cure.
s After that, how good I feel in the evening, with my Alabanda, when we rove for pleasure around the sun-red hills on our spirited horses, and on the summits where we linger, the wind plays in the manes of our mounts and the soothing rustle mingles with our talk, while we gaze into the distances of Sparta, which are the prize for which we shall fight!
and then when we have returned and sit together in the pleasant cool of the night, and the winecup is sweet in our nostrils and the moon's rays light our frugal meal, and amid  9 our smiling silence, the history of the men of old rises like a cloud from the soil that bears us, how blissful it is in such moments to grasp each other's hands!
Then perhaps Alabanda speaks of many another whom the ennui of this century torments, of so many a strangely crooked course that life takes, now that its straight path has been blocked, and then I think, too, of my Adamas, with his journeyings, his strange longing for the innermost parts of Asia—"These are but stopgaps, dear old man," I would cry to him now, "come!
and build your world!
with us!
for our world is yours, too."
And yours, too, Diotima, for it is copied after you.
O you, with your Elysian quiet, could we but create that which you are!
Hyperion to Diotima We have now won three battles in succession—small ones, to be sure, but in them the combatants collided like thunderbolts and all was one consuming flame.
Navarin is ours, and we are now before the fortress of Mistra, that remnant of ancient Sparta.
And the flag that I wrested from an Albanian horde, I have planted on a ruin that lies before the city, and in my joy have thrown my Turkish turban into the Eurotas and since then wear the Greek casque.
And now would that I could see you, O maiden!
that I could see you and take your hands and press them to my heart, whose joy will soon perhaps be too great!
soon!
in a week perhaps the old, noble land will be set free, the sacred Peloponnesus.
Then, O precious one, teach me to be pious!
then teach my overflowing heart a prayer!
I should be silent, for what have I done?
and if I had done anything worth speaking of, how much is nonethe- less left to do!
But how can I help it if my thought is swifter than time?
I wish so much that it were the other way around, that time and the deed overtook the thought, that winged victory outstripped the hope itself.
My Alabanda blooms like a bridegroom.
From his every look the coming world smiles at me, and with that 1 still quiet my impatience somewhat.
Diotima!
I would not change this budding happiness for the most beautiful life that was ever lived in ancient Greece, and the smallest of our victories is dearer to me than Marathon and Thermopylae and Plataea.
Is it not true?
is not life recovering health more cherished than the pure life that has not yet known sickness?
Not until youth is gone do we love it, not until whatlia§.^enj^ remnis3Qe$ it rejoice all the depths of the soul« My tent is pitched beside the Eurotas, and when I wake up after midnight the ancient River God roars past exhorting me, and, staffing, I pick the flowers on the bank and throw them into his Shining waves and say to him: "Take it as a sign, thou lonely one!
Soon die old life will bloom around thee again."
Diotima to Hyperion I have received die letters, my Hyperion, that you have written me along your way You move me powerfully by all that you say, and in die midst of my love I often shudder to see thejei^ej?puth jwho wept at my feet transformed into this robust being., " """ Will you not forget all tEat you havelearaedol: love?
But change as you will!
I follow you.
I believe that if you could hate me, I, too, should even come to feel as you felt, would make an effort to hate you, and so our souls would remain alike—and this that I say is no exaggeration, Hyperion.
I, too, am wholly different from what I was.
I have lost my serene view of the world and my free delight in everything that has life.
Only the field of the stars still draws my eyes.
On the other hand, I think all the more fondly of the great spirits of the past and how they ended on earth, and the noble women of Sparta have won my heart.
With all this, I do not forget the new champions, the strong whose hour has come, I often hear their shouts of victory through the Peloponnesus roar nearer and nearer to me, I often see them surging down like a cataract through the woods of Epidaurus, and their weapons glitter far off in the sunlight that guides them on like a herald, O my Hyperion!
and you come swiftly across to Calaurea and greet the quiet woods of our love, greet me, and then fly back to  9 your work;—and do you think I fear for the outcome!
Dearest!
often I am close to being troubled, but my nobler thoughts are like flames and hold off the chill.— Farewell!
Accomplish what the spirit bids you!
and let not the war go on too long, for peace's sake, Hyperion, for the sake of the beautiful, new, golden peace, when, as you said, the laws of Nature will yet be written in our statute book, and when life itself, when divine Nature, that can be written in no book, will dwell in the hearts of the community.
Farewell.
Hyperion to Diotima You should have calmed me, my Diotima!
should have said that I must not go too fast, must extort victory from Fate little by little, as what they owe is wrung from impecunious debtors.
O maiden!
to stand still is worse than anything.
My blood dries up in my veins, I so thirst to go forward, and must stand here idle, laying siege day in and day out.
Our men want to storm, but that would heat their excited spirits to frenzy, and alas!
then for our hopes, if every savagery erupts and bursts the bonds of discipline and love.
I do not know, it can be but a few days longer before Mistra must surrender, but I wish we were farther forward.
Here in the camp I feel as if I were in the atmosphere of a brewing storm.
I am impatient, and my men are not to my liking.
There is a recklessness among them that is terrifying.
But I am stupid to make so much of my state of mind.
Yes, a little concern is a cheap price to pay for making ancient Lacedaemon ours.
Hyperion to Diotima It is over, Diotima!
our men have plundered, murdered, indiscriminately, even our brothers were killed, the innocent Greeks in Mistra, or they wander helplessly about, their deathly faces calling Heaven and Earth to wreak vengeance on the barbarians, whose leader I was.
Now indeed I can go forth and preach my good cause.
Oh now indeed all hearts will fly to me!
How cleverly I went about it.
How well I knew my men.
Yes!
it was indeed a remarkable undertaking, to establish my Elysium with a pack of thieves!
No!
by sacred Nemesis!
I have got what I deserved, and I will bear it too, bear it until the pain destroys my last consciousness.
Do you think I am raving?
I have an honorable wound, which one of my faithful followers gave me while I was trying to avert the horror.
If I were raving, I would tear the bandage from it, and then my blood would run where it should—into this sorrowing soil.
This sorrowing soil!
whose nakedness J_sought to clothe with sacred groves!
this soil which I sought to adorn with all the flowers of Greek life!
Oh, it would have been beautiful, my Diotima!
Do you tell me I have lost faith?
Dear girl!
the evil is too great.
Bands of madmen are bursting in on every side; rapacity rages like the plague in Morea, and he who does not also take the sword is hunted down and slain, and the maniacs say they are fighting for our freedom.
Others of these wild men are paid by die Sultan and do the same things.
I have just heard that our dishonored army is now scattered.
The cowards encountered a troop of Albanians near Tripolissa, only half as many as themselves.
But since there was nothing to plunder, the wretches all ran away.
Only the Russians who risked this campaign with us, forty brave men, put up a resistance, and they all found death.
So now lam again alone with my Alabanda, as before.
Ever since he saw me fall and bleed in Mistra, that true-hearted friend has forgotten everything else—his hopes, his longing for victory, his despair.
