He who in his fury came down upon the plunderers like an avenging god, he led me out of the fight so gendy, and his tears wet my clothes.
He stayed with me, too, in the hut where I have lain since then, and only now am I glad that he did so.
For had he gone on, he would now be lying in the dust before Tripolissa.
What is to follow I know not.
Fate casts me adrift in uncertainty, and I have deserved it; my own feeling of shame banishes me from you, and who knows for how long?
9 Ah!
I promised you a Greece, and instead you receive only an elegy.
Be your own consolation!
Hyperion to Diotima I can scarcely bring myself to speak.
To be sure, men delight in speaking, they chatter away like the birds, so long as the world breathes upon them like the air of May; but between noon and evening that can change, and what is lost in the end?
Believe me, and consider that I say it to you from the depths of my soul: speech is a great superfluity.
The best is ever for itself, and rests in its own depth like the pearl at the bottom of the sea.—But what I really wanted to write to you is this: because the painting needs its frame and man his daily work, I am now going to take service for a time in the Russian fleet; for I have nothing more to do with the Greeks.
O dear girl!
It has grown very dark around me!
Hyperion to Diotima I have hesitated, I have struggled.
But now at last it must be.
I see what is necessary.
And since I see it, it shall come to pass.
Do not misunderstand me!
do not condemn me!
I must advise you to give me up, my Diotima.
I am nothing more for you, lovely being!
This heart has dried up toward you, and my eyes no more see what has life.
Oh, my lips have withered; the sweet breath of love no longer wells up in my breast.
One day has taken all my youth from me; beside the Eurotas my life wept itself weary, ah!
beside the Eurotas which, in irreparable dishonor, goes mourning with its every wave past Lacedaemon's ruins.
There, there did Fate mow down my harvest.—Am I to have your love as an alms?—I am as utterly nothing, as inglorious, as the most wretched serf.
I am banished, cursed, like a common rebel, and many a Greek in Morea will hereafter narrate our heroic deeds to his children's children as a tale of thieves.
And, ah!
I have long kept one thing from you.
My father has solemnly disowned me, banished me irrevocably from the home of my youth; he will never see me again, either in this life or the next, as he puts i t So reads die answer to the letter in which I wrote to him of my undertaking.
But let not pity, now or ever, lead you astray.
Believe me, there is one joy left for us everywhere.
True grief inspires.
He who steps on his misery stands higher.
And it is glorious that only in suffering do we truly feel freedom of soul.
Freedom!
if any understand the word—it is a deep word, Diotima.
I am so inwardly assailed, so extraordinarily hurt, I am without hope, without a goal, utterly dishonored, and yet there is a power in me, something indomitable, that sets my frame sweetly trembling whenever it awakes in me.
And I still have my Alabanda.
He has as little to gain as I have.
I can keep him for myself without injuring him.
Ah!
the kingly youth would have deserved a better lot.
He has become so gentle and so quiet.
It often comes near to breaking my heart.
But each of us sustains the other.
We do not talk together; what should we say?
but there is a blessing in many little affectionate things that we do for each other.
There he sleeps, smiling resignedly, in all our misfortune.
The good soul!
he does not know what I am doing.
He would not tolerate it.
"You must write to Diotima," he ordered me, "and tell her to be ready soon to fly with you to a more endurable country."
But he does not know that a heart that has learned to despair like his and like mine is nothing more for its beloved.
No!
no!
you would forever find no peace with Hyperion, you could not but be unfaithful, and that I shall spare you.
And so farewell, sweet maid!
farewell!
Would that I could say to you: "Go here, go there; there the springs erf life murmur."
Would that I could show you a freer country, a country filled with beauty and soul, and say: "Escape there."
But, O Heaven!
if I could do that, I should be other than I am, and then I should not need to take my leave—take leave?
Ah, I know not what I am doing.
I thought that I was so self-possessed, so cool-headed.
Now my brain reels, my heart tosses like an impatient sick man.
woe to me!
I am destroying my last happiness.
But it must be, and mortal nature's "Alas!"
is unavailing here.
I owe it to you, and, besides that, I was born to be homeless  10 and without a resting place.
O Earth!
O you Stars!
shall I find nowhere to abide, even to the end?
Could I but once return to your arms, no matter where!
Eyes clear as the ether!
could I but once again find myself in you!
hang on those lips of yours, O lovable, inexpressible one!
and drink down your ravishing, blessed sweet life—but listen not to this!
I implore you, heed it not!
If you listened, I should say I am a seducer.
You know me, you understand me.
You recognize what deep respect you pay me, if you do not pity me, do not listen to me.
I can, I may no more—how should the priest live when his God is no more?
O Genius of my people!
O Soul of Greece!
I must descend, I must seek you in the realm of the dead.
Hyperion to Diotima I have waited long, I will confess to you; I have hoped anxiously for a parting word from your heart, but you are silent.
That, too, is a language of your beautiful soul, Diotima.
Is it not true that the more sacred harmonies do not therefore cease?
is it not true, Diotima, that even when the soft moonlight of love sets, the higher stars of its heaven still shine on?
Oh, that is indeed my last joy, that we are inseparable, even if no sound returns to me from you, no shadow of our fair young days.
I gaze out to the reddened sea of evening; I stretch my arms toward the far place where you live, and my soul is warmed once again by all the joys of love and youth.
O Earth!
my cradle!
all bliss and all sorrow is in our leave-taking from you!
You dear Ionian islands!
and you, my Calaurea, and you, my Una, you are all before my eyes, distant though you be, and my .
spirit flies with the breeze over the moving waters; and you that loom dimly over there, you shores of Teos and Ephesus, where once I walked with Alabanda in the days of hope, you appear to me again as in that time, and I would sail across to the mainland and kiss that soil and warm it at my breast and stammer out all sweet words of farewell to the silent Earth, before I fly up into freedom.
Alas, alas, that things are not now better among mankind!
were it  1 otherwise, I would gladly remain upon this goodly star.
But I can forego this globe of the Earth, and that is more than all that it can give.
"Let us bear slavery, O child, in the light of the Sun," said her mother to Polyxena, and her love of life could find no more beautiful expression.
But it is the light of the Sun that exhorts me not to bear slavery, that will not let me remain upon the degraded Earth, and his holy rays draw me on, like paths that lead home.
Long since has the majesty of the soul that is outside of Fate been more present to me than anything else; I have often lived within.
myself in glorious solitude; I have grown used to shaking off outside "things like flakes of snow; why, then, should I be afraid to seek so* called death?
have I not freed myself a thousand times in thought?
why should I hesitate to do it once in reality?
Are we like slaves, then, bound to the soil that we plow?
are we like barnyard fowls, which dare not run out of the courtyard because they are fed there?
We are like young eagles whose father drives them out of the nest that they may seek their prey in the high ether.
Tomorrow our fleet goes into action, and the fight will be hot enough.
I look on this battle as a bath that will wash the dust from me; and I shall doubdess find what I wish for; wishes like mine are easily granted, and on the spot.
And so I should have gained something after all from my campaign, and behold!
no effort that man makes is wholly in vain.
Devout soul!
I would say, "Think of me when you come upon my grave."
But they will doubdess throw me into the sea, and I am content to have my remains sink down where the springs and all the rivers that I loved gather together, and where the storm cloud arises to drench the mountains and the valleys that I loved.
And we?
O Diotima!
Diotima!
when shall we see each other once again?
It is impossible, and my inmost life rebels if I try to think that we are lost to each other.
I would wander among the stars for millenniums, clothe myself in all forms, in all the languages of life, that I might meet you once again.
But I think that what is alike is soon united.
Great soul!
you will be able to reconcile yourself to this parting, and so let me be off on my journey!
Greet your mother!
greet Notara and our other friends!
10 And greet the trees where I found you before me for the first time and the joyous brooks where we walked and the lovely gardens of Angele, and, dear one, let my image be before you.
Farewell.
Book Two Hyperion to Bellarmin I was in a lovely dream when I copied out for you the letters that I once exchanged.
Now I write to you again, my Bellarmin!
and lead you yet further down, down into the deepest depth of my sorrow, and then, you last of my loves!
come out with me again, to the place where a new day shines upon us.
The battle of which I had written to Diotima began.
The Turkish ships had withdrawn into the strait between die island of Chios and the Asiatic coast, and had taken up a position along die mainland near Cheshme.
My admiral left the line with his ship, on which I was, and began the prelude with the first Turkish ship.
The enraged pair were heated to frenzy at the very first attack; it was an intoxication of revenge, a terrible battle.
The ships were soon fast together by their rigging; die furious fight was ever at closer quarters.
A profound sense of life still pervaded me.
I felt warm and good in every limb.
My spirit, like one taking tender leave, was aware of itself for the last time in all its senses.
And now, filled with hot disgust at knowing nothing better than to let myself be slaughtered in a crush of barbarians, I rushed on, with tears of rage in my eyes, to where certain death awaited me.
I had not far to seek for the enemy, and it was not many minutes before, of the Russians who were fighting beside me, not even one was left.
I stood there alone, filled with pride, and flung my life down before the barbarians like a beggar's penny; but they would have none of me.
They looked at me as at a man whom one is afraid to offend, and Bate seemed to feel consideration for me in my despair.
In desperate self-defense, one of them at last aimed a blow at me,  3 striking me so that I fell.
After that I knew nothing, until I came to my senses again in Faros, to which I had been brought by ship» Brom the servant who carried me out of the battle I later heard that the two ships that had begun the fight had blown up the moment after he and the surgeon had taken me off in a boat.
The Russians had thrown fire into the Turkish ship; and since theirs was fast to the other, it had burned too.
How this terrible battle ended, you know.
"Thus one poison wreaks vengeance upon the other," I cried, when I learned that the Russians had burned the entire Turkish fleet— "thus do tyrants exterminate themselves."
Hyperion to Bellarmin Six days after the battle I lay in a tortured, deathly sleep.
My life was like a night interrupted by pains as from flashing lightning.
My first returning consciousness was of Alabanda.
He had not—so I learned—stirred from my side for an instant, had taken care of me almost single-handed, with incredible assiduity, with a thousand tender, homely services of which he would otherwise never in his life have thought, and he had been heard to cry, on his knees beside my bed: "O live, my loved one, that I may live!
It was a happy awakening, Bellarmin!
when my eyes opened to the light again, and the glorious youth stood before me with tears of emotion at our reunion.
I held out my hand, and, proud as he was, he kissed it with all the rapture of love.
"He lives,** he cried, "O Nature!
O kindly, all- healing savior!
you do not, will not forsake your wretched pair, your wanderers without a country.
O Hyperion!
never will I forget seeing your ship go up in fire before my eyes and, thundering, carry the sailors with it in raging flame, and among the few who were saved there was no Hyperion.
I was out of my mind, and the fierce clamor of battle did not quiet me.
But I soon heard news of you and flew after you as soon as we had finished with the enemy.
"— And how he watched over me now!
with what loving caution he kept me imprisoned in the magic circle of his kind services!
how,  10 without a word, he taught me by his great quietude to understand the free course of the world without envy and like a man!
O you sons of the Sun!
you freer souls!
much has been lost in this Alabanda.
I sought in vain, in vain I prayed to Life; since he is gone, such a Roman nature I have never found.
Untroubled, profoundly understanding, brave, noble Alabanda!
where is there a man if he was not one?
And when he was friendly and simple, it was as when the light of evening plays through the darkness of die majestic oak and its leaves drip with the rainstorm of the day Hyperion to Bellarmin It was in the beautiful days of autumn that, half recovered from my wound, I made my way to the window again for the first time.
I returned to life with calmer senses and my soul had grown more attentive.
The air of heaven breathed its most delicate magic upon me, and the serene sunbeams poured down as mildly as a rain of flowers.
There was a great, quiet, tender spirit in the season, and among the rustling twigs the peace of completion, the bliss of maturity surrounded me like the renewed youth for which the Ancients hoped in their Elysium.
It had been long since I had enjoyed it in purity of soul, this childlike love of the world; now my eyes opened with all the joy of recognition and blessed Nature had remained unchanged in her beauty.
My tears flowed before her like an atoning sacrifice, and a heart renewed rose tremblingly from my old discontent "O holy world of plants!"
I cried, "we struggle and take thought, and yet have you!
with our mortal powers we strive to cultivate the Beautiful, yet it grows light-heartedly beside us!
Is it not so, Alabanda?
men are made to provide for their necessities; all else is freely given.
And yet—I cannot forget how much more I wanted."
"Let it suffice you, dear one, that you exist," cried Alabanda, "and let grieving no longer hinder what is quietly at work within you."
"Yes, I will rest," said I.
"Oh, I will tear up all those projects, all those claims, like promissory notes.
I will keep myself pure, as an  5 artist keeps himself; you will I love, innocent Life, Life of the grove and the spring!
you will I honor, O light of the Sun!
by you will I calm myself, beautiful Ether, which givest life to the stars and yet here breathest about these trees and here touchest us in the depths of our hearts!
O willfulness of men!
I have bowed my neck like a beggar, and the Gods of Nature watched me in silence with all their gifts!—Do you smile, Alabanda?
Oh how often, in our earliest days, did you smile so when your lad chattered to you in the intoxicated pride of youth, the while you stood like a quiet temple pillar amid the rubble of the world and could not but süßer the wild tendrils of my love to grow about you—see what a blindfold falls from my eyes, and the old golden days are here and live again!"
"Ah!"
he cried, "the earnestness that was ours, and the joy of life!"
"When we hunted in the forest," I cried, "when we bathed in the sea, when we sang and drank, and through the laurel shade the sun and the wine and our eyes and our lips were bright—that was a life without equal and our spirit illuminated our youthful happiness like a shining heaven."
"And therefore neither of us can abandon the other," said Alabanda.
"Oh, I have a heavy confession to make to you," said L "Will you believe that I wanted to go away?
from you!
that I sought my death by sheer strength?
was that not heartless?
madness?
ah, and my Diotima!
she must leave me, I wrote to her, and after that another letter, the evening before the battle—* "and you wrote in it," he cried, "that you would seek your end in the battle?
O Hyperion!
But she cannot yet have received that last letter.
You must write to her, quickly, that you are still alive."
aBest Alabanda!"
I cried.
aYou comfort me indeed!
I will write at once and send my servant off with it.
Oh, I will offer him all that I have to hurry and reach Calaurea while it is still time.
"— "And the other letter, in which you wrote of renunciation—the good soul will easily understand and forgive you for that," he added.
"Does she forgive?"
I cried; "O all you hopes!
yes!
if I could still be happy with that angel!"
"You will still be happy," cried Alabanda; "the most beautiful age of life is yet left to you.
The youth is a hero, the man a god, if he can live to see it"  10 A wondrous light dawned in my soul as he spoke.
The tops of the trees stirred softly; like flowers from the dark earth, stars sprouted from the womb of night and the springtime of the heavens shone on me in holy joy.
Hyperion to Bellarmin A few minutes later, just as I was about to write to Diotima, Alabanda came joyfully back into the room.
"A letter, Hyperion!"
he cried; I gave a start and flew to it.
"How long," wrote Diotima, "I had to live without a sign from you!
You wrote me about the fatal day at Mistra, and I answered speedily; but everything would indicate that you did not receive my letter.
Immediately afterward you wrote to me again, briefly and gloomily, and said you were of a mind to join the Russian fleet; I answered again; but that letter did not reach you either; now I, too, waited in vain, from May to the end of summer, until some days ago the letter arrived which tells me I should renounce you, beloved!
"You relied on me, had enough trust in me to believe that your letter could not offend me.
That made me heartily glad, even in my distress.
"Unhappy, lofty spirit!
I have understood you only too well.
Oh, it is so completely natural that you will not love, because your greater wishes are dying a lingering death.
Must you not scorn food when you are perishing of thirst?
"I soon understood; I could not be all to you.
Could I loose the bonds of mortality for you?
could I quiet the flame in your breast, that flame for which no spring flows and no vine bears grapes?
could I offer you the joys of the world in a scallop shell?
"That is what you want.
That is what you need, and you cannot do otherwise.
The unbounded impotence of your contemporaries has robbed you of your life.
"He who, like you, has been hurt to the depths of his soul can no longer find rest in an individual joy, he who, like you, has felt nothingness in all its vapidity finds exhilaration only in the highest spirit, he who has experienced death as you did recovers only among the gods.
7 "They are fortunate—all those who do not understand you!
He who understands you must share in your greatness and in your despair.
"I found you as you are.
Life's first curiosity impelled me toward that wonderful being.
Your tender soul drew me inexpressibly on, with the fearlessness of a child I played about your dangerous flame.—The beautiful joys of our love softened you; but only, wicked man!
to make you the more savage.
They soothed, they solaced me, too, they made me forget that you were essentially inconsolable, and that I, too, was not far from becoming so ever since I had looked into your beloved heart "In Athens, beside the ruins of the Olympieion, it came over me again.
In carefree hours, it is true, I had been thinking: This youth's sorrow is not perhaps so deep and inexorable.
It is so seldom that a man, at his first step into life, has at once so suddenly, so minutely, so quickly, so deeply felt the whole inevitable course of his time, and that this feeling is so ineradicably fixed in him because he is not rugged enough to cast it out and not weak enough to weep it away— that, my dear one, is so unusual that we think it almost out of the course of Nature.
"Now, in the rubble of serene Athens, it came home to me all too grievously: the leaf has been turned, the dead now walk the earth and the living, the divine men, are under it, now I saw it all too literally and all too really written on your face, now I admitted that you were eternally right.
But at the same moment I saw you greater.
A being filled with secret strength, filled with a deep, undeveloped significance, a youth uniquely promising—thus you appeared to me.
'He to whom Destiny speaks so loudly has the right to speak yet more loudly to Destiny,91 told myself; "the more unfathomably he suffers, the more unfathomably strong he is.'
Brom you, from you alone, I hoped for all restoration.
I saw you traveling.
I saw you working.
Oh, the transformation!
Established by you, the grove of Academe spread green again over listening pupils, and the plane tree of the Ilissus heard sacred conversations, as of old.
"In your school the genius of our youths soon acquired the seriousness of the Ancients, and its transitory games became more nearly immortal, for it felt ashamed, deemed its butterfly flight a prison.—  10 "To manage a horse would have sufficed one of them; now he is a general.
Only too contentedly would another have sung an idle song; now he is an artist.
For you had revealed the powers of the heroes, the powers of the world to them in open battle; you had given them die riddles of your heart to solve; so the youths learned to bring together great things, learned to understand the living play of Nature, and forgot jesting.—Hyperion!
Hyperion!
did you not make me, immature as I was, a Muse?
So it was, too, with the others.
"Ah!
now men, born to companionship» did not so easily forsake one another; no longer did they wander in mutual confusion, like sand in the desert storm, nor did youth and age mock each other, nor did the stranger lack a hospitable host, and fellow countrymen no longer stood aside, and lovers no longer tired of each other; at your springs, Nature, they refreshed themselves, ah!
at the sacred joys that pour secretly from your depths and renew the spirit; and the gods restored to the souls of men the joy without which they wither away; the heart-sustaining gods were guardians of every bond of friendship.
For you, Hyperion!
had healed the eyes of your Greeks so that they saw the living, you had kindled the enthusiasm that slept in them like fire in wood so that they felt the still, never-failing enthusiasm of Nature and of her pure children.
Ah!
now men no longer took the beautiful world as the uninitiated take the artist's poem when they praise the words of it and look for profit in them.
O living Nature, you became a magical example tQ the Greeks, and* fired by the happiness of the ever-young gods, all the activities of men were, as ofoTdTä festival; and more beautiful than martial müsic,MHeiios> H^ST^scofteä the young heroes to high deeds.
"Enough!
enough!
it was my most beautiful dream, my first and my last.
You are too proud any longer to concern yourself with this villainous race.
And you are right.
You led them to freedom, and they thought of robbery.
You led them victoriously into their ancient Lacedaemon, and these monsters fall to plundering and you are cursed by your father, great son!
and no wilderness, no cave is safe enough for you on this Greek soil that you revered as a sacred shrine, that you loved more than you loved me.
"O my Hyperion!
I am no longer the gentle maiden, since I have learned all this.
Indignation bears me upward so that I can hardly  9 see down to the Earth, and my offended heart trembles incessantly.
, "We will part.
You are right.
And I want no children; for I will not bestow them on this world of slaves, and besides, the poor plants would wither away before my eyes in this drought.
"Farewell, dear youth!
go wherever you think it worth going to yield up your soul.
The world must yet have one battlefield, one place of sacrifice, where you can free yoursell It would be a shame if all these goodly powers but vanished like a dream.
But however you find your end, you return to the gods, return into the sacred, free, youthful life erf Nature, whence you came, and that is your desire as it is mine."
So she wrote to me.
I was stricken to the core, filled with terror and joy, but I tried to control myself and find words in which to answer.
"You assent, Diorima?"
I wrote, "you approve of my renunciation?
you could understand it?—Loyal soul!
you could reconcile yourself to it?
could reconcile yourself even to my dark wanderings, in your heavenly patience?
you submitted, eclipsed yourself for love, happy child of Nature?
became like me and by your concurrence sanctified my grief?
Beautiful heroine!
what crown did you not earn?
"But now let there be enough of grieving, O loved one!
You have followed me into my darkness, now come!
and let me follow you to your light, let us return to your graces, beautiful heart!
oh, let me look upon your calm once again, blessed nature!
let me lull my discontent to sleep forever before you, image of peace!
"Is it not true, dear one!
it is not too late for me to return even now?
and you will take me back and can love me again, as before?
is it not true that the happiness of past days is not lost to us?
"I have behaved unconscionably.
I have dealt most ungratefully with Mother Earth; my blood and all the gifts of love that she gave me, I have thrown away like the base wage of a serf, and ah!
how many thousand times more ungrateful have I been to you, O sacred maiden!
who once received me into her peace, me, a shy, lacerated being from whose sorely oppressed heart scarcely a glimmer of youth stole forth, as here and there a grass blade steals up from trodden paths.
Had you not called me to life?
was I not yours?
then how could I—oh, you know not yet, I hope, it has not reached your hands, the unhappy letter that I wrote to you before the last battle?
I  11 wanted to die then, Diotima, and I thought thus to perform a sacred act.
But how can that be sacred which parts lovers?
how can that be sacred which destroys the innocent happiness erf our lives?—O Diotima!
O life born in beauty!
now I have become all die more like you in what is most uniquely yourself, I have at last learned to value, I have learned to guard, what is good and intrinsic on earth.
Oh, even if I could land up there, on the shining islands erf the sky, should I find more than I find in Diotima?
"Hear me now, beloved!
"In Greece I can remain no longer.
That you know.
When he dismissed me my father sent me enough out of what he could spare to enable us to flee to some blessed valley in the Alps or the Pyrenees and there to buy a pleasant house and with it as much green ground as life's golden mean requires.
"If you are willing, I will come at once and conduct you and your mother with a loyal arm, we will kiss the shore erf Calaurea and dry our tears and hasten across the Isthmus to the Adriatic Sea, where a safe ship will take us farther.
"Oh come!
in the depths of the mountain world the secret of our hearts will rest like the precious stone in the mine; in the bosom of woods that tower to the sky we shall be as among the pillars of the inmost temple, where the godless draw not near, and we shall sit by the spring, and behold our world in it—sky and house and garden and ourselves.
On a clear night we shall often wander in our orchard's shade and listen for die loving god in us, while the plant raises its bowed head from its midday sleep, and the still life of your flowers is refreshed when they bathe their tender arms in the dew and the night air breathes its penetrating coolness around them, and above us the meadow of the sky blooms with all its twinkling flowers, and to one side the moon behind westerly clouds shyly imitates the setting of the youthful sun as if for love of him—and then in the morning when our valley is like a riverbed filled with warm light, and the golden stream runs silently through our trees and flows around our house and makes the lovely room that is your handiwork more beautiful for you, and you move through its sunny brightness and, in your grace, bless the day for me, beloved!
then, as we thus celebrate the delight of morning, when the busy life of Earth is kindled before our eyes like a burnt sacrifice and we go forth to our day's work, to cast our share, too, into the rising flame, will you  1 not say then, 'We are happy, we are again like the ancient priests of Nature, who, sacred and free, were already pious before ever a temple stood9?
"Have I said enough?
now decide my fate, dear maid, and soon!— It is fortunate that I am still half an invalid, as I have been since the last battle, and that I have not yet been released from service; otherwise I could not remain here, I could not but go myself, ask you myself, and that would not be right, for it would be to besiege you.— "Ah, Diotima!
anxious, foolish thoughts assail my heart, and yet—I cannot think that this hope, too, will founder.
"Have you perhaps become too great to return now to earthly happiness?
does the mighty flame of spirit that was kindled at your sorrow, does it perhaps consume all that is mortal in you?
"I know well that he who lightly quarrels with the world is reconciled with it even more lightly.
But you, who have the quiet of a child, you, once so happy in your high humility, Diotima!
who shall reconcile you when your quarrel is with destiny?
"Dear life!
is there then no more power of healing for you in me?
of all the notes of the heart, does none any longer call you back to the life of men, where once you lingered so beautifully in descended flight?
oh, come!
oh, remain in this twilight!
This shadow-land is surely love's element, only here does the quiet dew erf melancholy run from the heaven of your eyes.
"And do you no longer remember our golden days, those enchanting, divinely melodious days?
do they not rustle to you from all the groves of Calaurea?
"And see!
so much has perished in me, and I have few hopes left Your image with its heavenly awareness—that I still have, like a household god saved from the conflagration.
Our life, ours, is still inviolate in me.
Should I now arise and bury this too!
Shall I go forth, with no rest and no goal, from one homelessness to another?
Is it for this that I learned to love?
"No, no!
you my first and my last!
You were mine, and mine you shall remain."
Hyperion to Bellarmin I was sitting with Alabanda on a hill near where we were staying, in the kindly warmth of the sun, and around us the wind played with  11 fallen leaves.
The countryside was quiet; only here and there, a tree felled by the farmer crashed far away in the woods and, close by, the intermittent rain-fed stream murmured down to the peaceful sea.
I was almost carefree; I hoped to see my Diotima soon now, soon now to live with her in quiet happiness.
Alabanda had talked me out of all my doubts; he was so certain of it himself.
He, too, was serene, but in another sense.
The future had no more power over him.
Oh, I did not know it: he was at the end of his joys; with all his claims on the world, all his conquering nature, he saw himself useless, ineffectual, and alone, and he accepted it as if he had lost some game played but to while away the time.
A messenger arrived.
He brought us the discharge from military service for which we had both petitioned the command of the Russian fleet because there was nothing left for us to do that seemed worth the effort.
I could now leave Paros whenever I pleased.
And I was now well enough to travel.
I did not want to wait for Diotima's answer; I wanted to be off to her, it was as if a god were driving me to Calaurea.
When Alabanda heard me say this, his color changed and he looked at me sorrowfully.
"Is it so easy for my Hyperion," he cried, "to forsake his Alabanda?"
"Forsake?"
I said.
"What do you mean?"
"Oh, you dreamers!"
he cried.
"Do you not see that we must part?"
"How should I see it?"
I answered; "you have not said a word about it; and what I have seen in you now and again that seemed to point to a separation I took in good part as a momentary mood, as coming from a heart too full—" "Oh, I know it well," he cried, "that divine game when love in its wealth pretends to be in need, so that it can shower its plenty on itself, and I would that it were thus with me, good heart!
but in this case I am in earnest!"
"In earnest?"
I cried.
"But why?"
"Why, my Hyperion," he said gently.
"Because I would not wish to trouble your future happiness, because I cannot but fear to be close to Diotima.
Believe me, it is risky to live with lovers, and a heart with nothing to do, as mine now is, can scarcely bear it."
"Ah, my good Alabanda," I said with a smile, "how little you know yourself!
You are not such a thing of wax, and your steadfast  3 soul is not so easily carried out of its domain.
For the first time in your life you give in to groundless fancies.
You played nurse for me here, and it is plain to see how little your nature is suited to i t Ulis sitting about doing nothing has made you timorous—" "There you are!"
he cried, "that is it exactly.
Living with you and Diotima, should I be any more active?
If it were some other woman!
but this Diotima!
can I help it?
can I feel her with half my soul?
she, who is so utterly at one with herself, one divinely undivided life?
