I still see the evening when Notara took me to visit her for the first time.
She lived only a few hundred paces from us, at the foot of the mountain.
Her mother was a thoughtful, tender being, her brother a simple, happy lad, and both of them, in all that they did, gladly acknowl- edged that Diotima was the queen of the household.
Ah, everything was blessed and beautified by her presence.
Wher- ever I looked, whatever I touched, the rug beside her chair, her cushion, her little table—they were all mysteriously allied to her.
And, oh, the first time she addressed me by my name, that she came so close to me that her innocent breath touched my listening being!— We spoke to each other very little.
Speech abashes.
Music alone would serve: to become all music and umted with each other in one celestial melody!
And of what were we to speak?
We saw nothing but each other.
Of that we did not dare to speak.
In the end we spoke of the life of the Earth.
Never has a hymn at once so ardent and so childlike been sung to her.
It did us good to bestrew our kindly Mother's lap with what overbrimmed our hearts.
We felt relieved, as the trees do when the   summer wind shakes their fruitful branches and pours their sweet apples over the grass.
We called Earth one of the flowers of Heaven, and Heaven the infinite garden of life.
As roses gladden one another with golden dust, we said, even so does the heroic sunlight gladden Earth with its rays; she is a glorious living being, we said, alike divine when raging fire or sweet clear water pours from her heart; even happy, whether she be nourished by dewdrops, or by thunderclouds that she prepares for her delight with the sky's aid; she is the ever more faithfully loving mate of the Sun God, perhaps in the beginning more intimately united with him but then divided from him by some all-powerful Fate, so that now she seeks him, approaches him, draws away, and, between joy and sorrow, ripens to die highest beauty.
So we spoke.
I give you the gist, the essence of it.
But what is that without the life?
Twilight fell, it was time to go.
"Good night, you angel eyes!"
I thought in my heart.
"Appear to me soon again, you beautiful, divine spirit, with your peace and your abundance!"
Hyperion to Bellarmin Some days later they came up to visit us.
We walked about the garden together.
Diotima and I found ourselves ahead of the others, absorbed; tears of ecstasy often rose to my eyes for the holiness that walked so unpretentiously beside me.
Now we were standing close to the summit's rim, gazing out into the endless East Diotima's eyes opened wide, and softly, as a bud unfolds, that sweet face unfolded under the airs of heaven, became pure speech and soul, and, as if beginning to rise among the clouds, her whole figure stood drawn gracefully up in gende majesty, her feet scarcely touching the ground.
Oh, could I have caught her under the arms, as the eagle grasps his Ganymede, and flown away with her over the sea and the islands!
Now she stepped yet farther forward, and gazed down the precipitous rock wall.
She found a pleasure in gauging the terrifying depths and losing herself in die night of the woods that raised their  4 lustrous crowns from among fallen rocks and foaming, storm- swollen streams.
The balustrade against which she was leaning was rather low.
So I dared to hold the charming being a moment, while thus she leaned forward.
Ah!
hot, trembling rapture coursed through my being, my every sense reeled and was confounded, my hands burned like coals, when I touched her.
And then the profound joy of standing so familiarly beside her, and my tender, childish fear that she might fall, and my delight in the glorious maiden's enthusiasm!
What is all that men have done and thought over thousands of years, compared with one moment of love?
But in all Nature, too, it is what is nearest to perfection, what is most divinely beautiful!
There all stairs lead from the threshold of life.
From there we come, to there we go.
Hyperion to Bellarmin The one thing that I should forget is her singing, only that music from the soul should never return into my unending dreams.
We do not know the proudly sailing swan when it sits asleep on the bank.
Only when she sang could one know the sweet, silent one who was so reluctant to speak.
Only then did that divinely uncomplaisant maiden appear in her majesty and her charm; then, then did her tender, blossoming lips breathe now cajolery and flattery, now the sternness of a divine decree.
And what a quickened heart there was in that divine voice, how all pride and all humility, all the joy and sorrow of life appeared beautified in the nobility of those tones!
As the swallow catches bees in flight, so she ever seized us all.
It was not delight, not wonder that arose among us, it was the peace of heaven.
A thousand times have I said it to her and to myself: the most beautiful is also the most sacred.
And such was everything in her.
Like her singing, even so was her life.
Hyperion to Bellarmin Her heart was at home among flowers, as if it were one of them.
She named them all by their names, or out of her love for them gave them new and more beautiful ones, she knew exactly which was die happiest season for each of them.
Like a sister when a dear brother or sister comes running to her from every corner, and each would be greeted first, so was her quiet being busy with hand and eye, blissfully distracted, when we walked to the meadows or the woods.
And all this was so utterly unaffected and uncalculated in her, it was so much a part of her own growth.
It is eternally true, it is visible everywhere: the more innocent, the more beautiful a soul is, the more familiarly will it live with those other happy beings to which men deny souls.
Hyperion to Bellarmin A thousand times in the joy of my heart have I laughed at people who imagine that a noble spirit cannot possibly know how to cook a vegetable.
At the proper time Diotima could speak stoudy of the hearth, and surely there is nothing nobler than a noble maiden who tends die all-beneficent flame and, like Nature herself, prepares the food that gladdens the heart.
Hyperion to Bellarmin -\ .
,- > What is all the artful knowledge in the world, what is all the proud autonomy of human thought, compared with the unstudied music of this spirit, which knew not what it knew or what it was?
Who would not rather choose the full, fresh grape-cluster as it sprang from the root, than the picked and dried grapes that the merchant presses into a box and sends out into the world?
What is the wisdom of a book compared with the wisdom of an angel?
She always seemed to say so little, and said so much.
4 One late twilight I was taking her home; like dreams, dewy mists were gliding over the fields, the blessed stars looked down through the twigs like watchful spirits« Rarely was a "How beautiful !"
heard from her lips, even though her reverent heart left no whispering lea£ no purling brook unheard and unheeded.
But this time she said it aloud to me: "How beautiful!"
"Perhaps it is so to please us!"
I said casually, as children say something, neither in jest nor in earnest.
"I can imagine that it is as you say," she answered; "I like best to think of the world as of life in a household of which each member, without exactly thinking about it, adapts himself to all the others, in which all live pleasing and rejoicing one another simply because that is what springs from their hearts."
"A happy and noble truth!"
I cried.
She was silent for a while.
"Then we, too, are children in such a household," I finally resumed; "we are, and shall be."
"Shall ever be," she answered.
"Shall we?"
I asked.
"In this," she continued, "I trust Nature, as daily I trust her."
Oh, how I wished that I could have been Diotima as she said this!
But you do not know what she said, my Bellarmin!
You neither saw it nor heard it.
"You are right," I cried.
"Eternal Beauty—Nature—suffers no loss as she suffers no addition.
Her ornaments are different tomorrow from what they were today; but she cannot dispense with what is best in us, with us, with us ourselves, and least of all with you.
We believe that we are eternal because our souls feel the beauty of Nature.
She will be a mere patchwork, she will be neither divine nor complete, if ever you are lacking to her.
She does not deserve your heart if she must blush before your hopes."
Hyperion to Bellarmin Such freedom from wants, such divine content I have never found before.
As the ocean swell about the shores of happy islands, so the peace of die heavenly maiden flowed about my restless heart.
I had nothing to give her except a mind full of wild contradictions, full of bleeding memories, I had nothing to give her except my boundless love with its thousand cares, its thousand furious hopes; but she stood before me in changeless beauty, effortless, in smiling perfection, and all the visions, all the dreams of mortality, ah!
all that the Genius presages of higher regions in golden morning hours—it was all fulfilled in that one calm soul.
Men say that the battle will die away beyond the stars; only after our lees have sunk, they promise us, will fermenting life be changed into the noble vintage of joy; men look no more on this earth for the heart-whole rest of the blessed.
I know otherwise.
I have taken the shorter way.
I stood before her, and heard and saw the peace of Heaven, and in the very midst of this sighing chaos, Urania appeared to me.
How often have I stilled my grieving before that image!
how often have arrogant life and the striving mind been pacified when, sunk in blessed contemplation, I looked into her heart, as one looks into a spring when it trembles silently under the touch of the sky that trickles down on it in drops of silver!
She was my Lethe, her soul my sacred Lethe, from which I drank forgetfulness of existence, so that I stood before her like an immortal and joyously rebuked myself and, as if after oppressive dreams, could not but smile at all the chains that had hung heavy on me.
Oh, I could have become a happy man, an admirable man with her!
With her!
But that failed, and now I wander about in what is before me and in me, and beyond, and know not what to make of myself and other things.
My soul is like a fish cast up out of its element on the sand of the beach, and it writhes and flings itself about until it dries up in the heat of the day.
Ah!
were there but something left in the world for me to do!
were there work for me, a war for me—that would refresh me!
Boys torn from their mother's breasts and cast out into the wilderness were once, so they say, suckled by a she-wol£ My heart is not so fortunate.
4 i Hyperion to Bellarmin I can speak only here and there a word about hen I have to forget what she is in her completeness if I am to speak of her at all.
I have to trick myself into believing that she lived long, long ago, that I know only a little about her from hearsay, if her living image is not so to overwhelm me that I perish in rapture and woe, if I am not to die of delight in her and die of grief for her.
Hyperion to Bellarmin It is in vain; I cannot hide it from myselt Wherever I flee with my thoughts, be it up to the heavens or into the abyss, to the beginning and to the end of Time, even if I turn to that which was my last refuge, which consumed every other grief in me, which burned up every other joy and woe of life for me in the flame in which it revealed itself, even if I cast myself into the arms of that glorious, secret Spirit of the World, plunge into its depths as into the boundless ocean—there, even there the sweet terror finds me, the sweet, bewildering, fatal terror, that Diotima's grave is near me.
Do you hear?
do you hear?
Diotima's grave!
Yet my heart had grown so quiet, and my love was buried with the dead one whom I loved.
You know, my Bellarmin, that for a long time I did not write to you of her, and when I wrote, I wrote to you calmly, or so I think?
So what is it now?
I go down to the shore and look across to Calaurea, where she rests—it is that.
Oh, may no one lend me his boat, may no one have pity on me and offer me his oars and take me across to her!
May the kindly sea not remain calm, that I may not cut myself a piece of wood and swim across to her.
But let me plunge into the raging sea and ask its waves to cast me on Diotima's shore!
Dear brother!
I comfort my heart with all sorts of imaginings, I pour myself many a sleeping potion; and surely it would be nobler to free oneself forever than to make do with palliatives; but who does not do likewise?
So I am content to have it so.
Content!
that would be a fine thing!
that would be the help that is needed where no god can help.
Now, now!
I have done what I could!
I call on late to give me back my sold.
Hyperion to Bellarmin Was she not mine, you Sisters of Roe, was she not mine?
I summon the pure springs to witness, and the innocent trees that saw and heard us, and the light of day and the ether!
was she not mine?
at one with me in all the tones of life?
Where is the being that knew her as mine did?
In what mirror, as in me, were all the rays of that light concentrated?
was she not joyously terrified by her own splendor when first she became conscious of it in my joy?
Ah!
where is the heart that filled her and was filled by her like mine, that existed only to embrace hers, as the eyelash exists for the eye.
We were but one flower, and our souls lived in each other, like the flower when it loves and hides its tender joys in its closed cup.
And yet, and yet, was she not torn from me like a crown usurped, and laid in the dust?
Hyperion to Bellarmin Before either of us knew it, we belonged to each other.
When, with all the homage of my heart, blissfully conquered, I stood before her, saying nothing, and all my life offered itself up in the gaze of my eyes that saw only her, embraced only her, and she in turn looked at me in tender uncertainty, not knowing where my thoughts had come to rest; when often, absorbed in delight and beauty, I watched her at some charming task, and about her slightest movement, as the bee about the swaying twig, my soul darted and flew, and when then she turned to me in calm thought, and, startled by my joy, had to hide my joy from herself, and sought for peace in her dear task again, and found it—  S When in her miraculous omniscience, she caught every harmony, every dissonance in the depths of my being and revealed diem to me before I was even aware of them, when she saw every shadow of a cloud on my brow, every shadow of melancholy, of pride, on my lips, every^spark in my eyes, when she listened for the ebb and flow of my heart, and sadly foreboded troubled hours as my spirit spent itself too intemperately and prodigally in exuberant speeches, when the dear being showed me every change in my face more faithfully than a mirror, and often in loving concern reproved me for my unstable being and scolded me as one scolds a cherished child— Ah!
when once, innocent being, you counted on your fingers the steps that led down from our mountain to your house, when you showed me your walks, the places where you had often sat, and told me how the hours had passed for you then, and said at last that now it seemed to you as if I had always been there t o o - Had we not then long since belonged to each other?
Hyperion to Bellarmin I dig my heart a grave, that it may rest; I spin a cocoon about myself, because it is winter everywhere; I wrap myself against the storm in blissful memories.
One day we were sitting in Diotima's garden under blossoming almond trees, with Notara (that was the name of the friend in whose house I was living) and a few others who, like ourselves, were among the nonconformists in Calaurea, talking, among other things, about friendship.
I had scarcely joined in the conversation; for some time I had avoided saying much about things that lie closest to the heart, so taciturn had my Diotima made me.— "When Harmodius.and Aristogiton were alive," someone cried at last, "friendship „still existed, in the world," That pleased me too much for me to remain silent.
"We should twine you a wreath in reward for those words!"
I cried.
"But have you really any notion, any image, of the friendship between Aristogiton and Harmodius?
Forgive me!
But, by the   Ether!
one must be Aristogiton to have a sense of how Aristogiton loved, and surely he must not fear lightning who would be loved with Harmodius?
love, for I am mistaken in everything if the terrible youth did not love with all the sternness of Minos.
Few have come off successfully in such a test, and it is no easier to be the friend of a demigod than, like Tantalus, to sit at the table of the gods.
But by the same token there is nothing more glorious on earth than when such a proud pair as they are so sovereign over each other.
"This is my hope, too, my longing and my joy in solitary hours, that such noble tones, yes, and nobler, must yet sound again in the symphony of the world's course.
Love brought to birth millenniums filled with living men; friendship will give birth to them again.
Once upon a time the peoples set forth from the harmony of childhood; the harmony of spirits will be the beginning of another history of man.
Men began and grew from the happiness of the plant, grew until they ripened; from that time on they have been in ceaseless ferment, inwardly and outwardly, until now mankind lies there like a Chaps, utterly disintegrated, so thai ajT who can still feel and see are dizzied; but Beauty forsakes die life of men, flees upward into Spirit; the Ideal becomes what Nature was, and even though the tree is dried out and weatherworn below, a fresh crown has still sprung from it and flourishes green in the sunlight as the trunk did once in itsjiays of youth; the Ideal is what Nature was.
By this, by; this Ideal, this rejuvenated divinity, the few recognize one another and are one, föFöne thing is in them; and from them, from them, the world's second age begins—1 have said enough to make it clearj#hajJL think;* -You should hare seen Diotima then, springing up and giving me both her hands and crying: "I have understood it, beloved, much as it means, understood it all.
"Love bore the world, friendship will bear it again.
"Therefore, O you of the future, you new Dioscuri, therefore linger a little when you pass by the place where Hyperion sleeps, linger in sympathy over the forgotten man's ashes, and say: He would be like one of us, were he here now."
This I heard, my Bellarmin!
this was granted to me, and shall I not willingly go to my death?
5 Yes!
yes!
I have already had my reward; I have lived.
A god could bear more joy, but not I. Hyperion to Bellarmin Do you ask how it was with me at that time?
As with one who has lost all to gain all.
To be sure, I often came from Diotima's trees like one intoxicated with victory, often I had to hurry away from her lest I betray any of my thoughts; so did joy rage in me, and my pride and my boundless rapture in believing that Diotima loved me.
Then I sought out the highest mountains and their air, and like the eagle whose bleeding pinion has healed, my spirit moved in freedom, spread itself over the vi^le wgrldas^jt the world belonged tgxit; stränge to tell, I often felt asif the things erf earth were purified and fused together like gold in my fire, and something divine arose from them and me, so did joy rage in me; and oh!
how I picked up the children and clasped them to my throbbing heart!
how I greeted the plants and the trees!
I could have wished that I possessed a spell to gather all the shy deer and the wild birds of the forest like a happy family about my prodigal hands—in such blissful folly did I love all things!
But not for long, and all this was extinguished in me like a light, and speechless and mournful as a shade I sat and sought for the life that had vanished.
I felt no wish to complain, no wish to console myself.
I cast away hope as a lame man casts away his broken crutch; I was ashamed to weep; I was ashamed to exist.
Yet in the end my pride burst out in tears,' and the pain that 1 would have disowned became dear to me, and I took it to my breast like a child.
"No," cried my heart, "no, my Diotima!
it does not hurt.
Preserve your peace, and let me go my way.
Let it not disturb your quietude, pure star!
that there is ferment and murk below you.
"Oh, let not your rose fade, blessed springtime of the gods!
Let not your beauty age in the trials of earth.
This, this is my joy, sweet life!
that you bear carefree Heaven within you.
You are not made to become a pauper, no, no, you shall not see yourself destitute of love."
And when again I went down to her—I would have liked to ask the breeze and try to divine from the drift of the clouds how it would be with me in an hour!
And how happy I was when some friendly face met me on the way and called "A lovely day!"
to me not too mechanically When a little girl came out of the woods and held out a bunch of strawberries for me to buy, but with a look as if she wanted to give them to me, or when a farmer, sitting in his cherry tree picking as I passed, called down to me from among the branches and asked if I would not like a handful to taste—those were good omens to my superstitious heart!
If one of Diotima's windows stood wide open toward the road by which I came down, what good that did me!
Perhaps she had been looking out of it not long before.
And nowJ_stood before her, breathless and wavering, and pressed my crossed arms against my heart that I might not feel its trembling, and as die swimmer struggles out from the clutching tide, so my spirit strove and struggled not to drown in endless love.
"What shall we talk about, I wonder?"
I would cry.
"It is often difficult, finding a subject from which one's thoughts will not stray."
"Are they off into the air again?"
my Diotima answered.
"You must fasten lead to their wings, or I will tie a string to them as a boy does to a kite, so that we shall not lose them."
The dear girl was trying to help us both out by jesting, but it was little use.
"Yes!
yes!"
I cried, "whatever you say, whatever you think best— shall I read aloud?
Your lute is probably still in tune from yesterday and I really have nothing to read—" "You have more than once promised," she said, "to tell me of your life before we came to know each other—will you not do it now?"
"True," I said; my heart plunged into it eagerly, and I told her, as I have told you; of Adamas and my lonely days in Smyrna, of Alabanda and how I was parted from him, and of the strange sickness that afflicted my being before I came over to Calaurea—"Now you know all," I told her calmly when I had ended, "now you will find me less objectionable; now you will say," I added with a smile," 'Do not laugh at this Vulcan if he limps, for the gods have twice flung him down from heaven to earth/ "  5 "Be still," she cried in a choked voice, and hid her tears in her handkerchief, "oh, be still, and do not mock your destiny, your heart!
for I understand them better than you do.
"Dear—dear Hyperion.
You are indeed hard to help, "Do you not know," she continued, raising her voice, "do you not know what you are starving for, the one thing that you lack, what you are seeking as Alpheus his Arethusa, what you mourn for in all 1 your sorrow?
It did not vanish years ago, it is impossible to say exactly when it was there, when it went, but it was, it is—it is in you!
It is a better age, that is what you seek, a more beautiful world.
It was that world alone tRat you embraced in your friends, with them youj^^JthgEJö^d.
"It rose for you in Adamas; with him it set for you.
In Alabanda its light appeared to you for die second time, but more fiercely and searingly, and so it was like midnight about your soul when you found him gone.
"Now do you see, too, why the least doubt of Alabanda could not but become despair in you?
why you repudiated him, onlybecause he was not quite a god?
"It was no man that you wanted, believe me, you wanted a world.
The loss of all golden centuries, crowded together, as you felt them, in one happy moment, the spirit of all spirits of a better time, the strength of all the strength of heroes—you wanted one man to take their place for you!—Do you not see now how poor, how rich, you are?
why you must be so proud and so downcast?
why joy and sorrow visit you in such dreadful alternation?
"It is because you have everything and nothing, because the phantom of the golden days that must come belongs to you and yet is not here, because you are ajpitizen in the regions of Justice and Beauty, are a god among gods in the beautiful dreams that steal upon you by day, and when you awaken you find yourself standing on the soil of modern Greece.
"Twice, did you say?
Oh, in a single day you are flung from heaven to earth seventy times.
Shall I say it?
I fear for you, you can ill endure the destiny of this age.
You will yet attempt many things, you will— v uOh, God!
and your last refuge will be a grave!"
"No, Diotima," I cried, "by Heaven, no!
So long as one melody still sounds for me, I fear not the deathly stillness of the wilderness   under the stars; so long as the sun shines, and Diotima, there is no night for me.
"Let the death bell toll for every virtue; yet I hear you, you, the song of your heart, O you whom I love!
and find immortal life, while all other things must die and fade away."
"Hyperion," she cried, "what are you saying?"
UI say what I must.
I can no longer, no longer hide all my bliss and fear and anxiety—Diotima!—Yes, you know it, must know ikjp>u have long since seen that I perish if you do not reach out your hand tö me."
" She was astonished, bewildered.
"And is it I," she cried, "is it I in whom Hyperion would seek support?
yes, I wish—now for the first time I wish—that I were more than a mortal maiden.
But I am to you what I can be."
"Oh, then you are all to me!"
I cried.
"All?
wicked hypocrite!
what, then, of humanity, your last and only love?"
"Humanity?"
I said; "let humanity make Diotima its watchword and paint your picture on its banner and say: Today shall the divine have victory!9 Angel from heaven!
what a day that would be!"
"Go," she cried, "go, and show heaven your transfiguration!
It must not be so close to me.
"You will go, will you not, dear Hyperion?"
I obeyed.
Who in my place would not have obeyed?
I went.
Never before had I gone from her thus, O Bellarmin!
it was joy, serenity of life, divine peace, heavenly, wondrous, unfathomable joy!
Words avail not here, and he who would seek her like has never known her.
The one thing that could express such a joy was Di« otima's own singing when it floated between height and depth, in the golden mean.
O you meadows on the banks of Lethe!
you sunset paths to the woods erf Elysium!
you lilies by the valley's streams!
you garlands of roses about the hill!
I believe in you in this gracious hour and say to my heart: There you will find her again, and all the joy that you lost.
5 Hyperion to Bellarmin I will tell you more and yet more of my happiness.
I will try the temper of my heart on the joys of the past until it is like steel; I will exercise myself upon them until I am invincible.
Ha!
do they not often fall upon my soul like a sword-stroke?
but I play with the sword until I am used to it, I hold my hand in the fire until I can bear it as if it were water.
I will not faint; yes; I will be strong!
I will hide nothing from myself, will conjure up the bliss of all blisses from the grave.
It is incredible that a man should fear the most beautiful; yet jtis jp.
*"" Oh, have I not fled a hundred times from these moments, this mortal ecstasy of my memories, turned away my eyes as a child does from lightning!
Yet in the luxuriant garden of the world there grows nothing lovelierlEän.my joys, neither in heaven nor on garth does anything nobler flourish than my joys.
But only to you, my Bellarmin, only to a pure, free soul like yours, do I tell it.
I will not be as lavish as die sun with its rays; I will not cast my pearls before the lowly multitude.
After that last conversation in which our souls met, I knew myself less every day.
I felt there was a holy secret between me and Diotima.
I wondered, dreamed.
As if a blessed spirit had appeared to me at midnight and chosen me to be his companion—such was the state of my soul.
Oh, it is a strange mixture of bliss and melancholy when it becomes apparent to us that we are forever outside of ordGnary existence.
After that, I never managed to see Diotima alone.
There was always some third person to intrude on us, separate us, and the world lay between her and me like an unbounded emptiness.
Six days of mortal dread passed in this way, during which I had no knowledge of Diotima.
It was as if the others about us paralyzed my senses, as if they killed my entire outward life, so that there was no way by which my imprisoned soul could reach her.
If I tried to find her with my eyes, night fell around me; if I tried to approach her with a word, it stuck in my throat.
Ah!
my heart was often torn to pieces by my sacred, ineffable   longing, my love often raged in me as powerfully as an imprisoned Titan.
Never before had my spirit strained so fervently, so implacably, against the chains that Roe wrought for it, against the iron, inexorable law that kept it separate, that would not let it be one soul with its adorable other halt The star-bright night had now become my element.
Then, when all was still, as in the depths of the earth where gold grows in secret, then the more beautiful life of my love began.
Then my heart indulged its poetic right.
It told me how Hyperion's spirit had played with his dear Diotima in the Elysium of the unborn before it came down to earth, in divine childhood innocence, beside the music of the fountain and under branches that were like earthy brandies when we see them reflected, beautified from the golden water.
And, like the past, the gates of the future opened within me.
We flew, Diotima and I; we wandered from one springtime of the world to another, through all the Sun's wide realm and beyond, to the other isles erf heaven, to the golden shores of Sirius and Arcturus> vale of spirits— Oh, it is so to be desired to drink the joy of the world from one cup with the beloved!
Intoxicated by the blissful lullaby that I sang to myself, I fell asleep amid those glorious phantoms.
But when the life of the earth was kindled again by the rays of morning, I looked up and sought for the dreams of the night.
Like the lovely stars, they had vanished, and only the joy of grief bore witness to them in my soul.
I mourned; but I believe that there is such mourning among the blessed, too.
It was the messenger of joy, this grief, it was the graying dawn in which countless roses bud in die red of morning.
The burning summer day had now driven all things to seek refuge in the deepest shade.
In Diotima's house, too, all was now still and empty, and the envious curtains stood in my way at every window.
I lived in thoughts of her.
Where are you, I thought, where shall my lonely spirit find you, sweet maiden?
Do you stare aimlessly and muse?
Have you laid your work aside to sit with elbow on knee and your head on your little hand, giving yourself to lovely thoughts?
Let nothing disturb her peace if my quiet one is refreshing her  5 heart with sweet fancies, let nothing touch this cluster of grapes and graze the quickening dew from its delicate berries.
So I dreamed.
But while my thoughts were looking for her inside the walls of the house, my feet sought her elsewhere, and before I knew it I was walking under the arcades of the sacred wood behind Diotima's garden, where I had seen her for the first time.
But what was this?
Since then I had so often mingled among those trees, had become familiar with them, more at peace under them; now a power laid hold of me, it was as if I stepped within Diana's shadow and must die from the presence of the goddess.
Meanwhile I walked on.
With every step the wonder within me grew stronger.
I wanted to fly away, but it was as if my feet were weighted with lead.
My soul had hurried on before and forsaken my earthly limbs.
I heard no more, every shape grew dim and tremulous before my eyes.
My spirit was already with Diotima; the tree top played in the light of morning while the lower branches still felt the chill of dawn.
"Ah!
my Hyperion!"
a voice now called to me; I flew toward it; "My Diotima!
O my Diotima!
"—beyond that I had no words and no breath, no consciousness.
Vanish, vanish, mortal life, paltry commerce, in which the lone spirit looks ever and again at the pennies it has gathered together and counts them over; we are all called to the bliss of the gods!
There is a gap in my existence here.
I died, and when I awoke I was lying against the heart of the heavenly maiden.
O life of love!
in what a ravishing, perfect flowering did you appear in her!
as if lightly sung to sleep by blessed geniuses, the enchanting head lay on my shoulder, smiling sweet peace, raising eyes the color of the ether to me in happy, innocent amazement, as if they were even now looking at the world for the first time.
Long did we stand thus, ourselves forgotten in lovely contemplation, neither of us knowing what was happening to us, until at last joy increased in me too greatly and my lost speech broke forth in tears and cries of delight and roused my rapt, silent Diotima back to life.
At last we looked around us again.
"O my old, kindly trees!"
cried Diotima, as if she had not seen them for a long time, and the memory of her earlier solitary days   played over her joys, as charmingly as shadows upon virgin snow when it reddens and glows in the joyous light of sunset.
"Angel from heaven," I cried, "who can conceive of you?
who can say that he has wholly understood you?"
"Are you surprised," she answered, "that I am so fond of you?
O my proudly humble beloved!
Am I, dien, one of those who cannot believe in you?
have I not fathomed you, not recognized the genius among his clouds?
Hide yourself as much as you will, refuse to see yourself; I will conjure you forth, I will— "But he is already here, he has come forth like a star; he has broken through the husk and stands there like spring; like a crystal stream from a dark cavern, so has he come forth; this is not the somber Hyperion, this is no longer the wild mourning—O my own, my glorious boy!"
All this was like a dream to me.
Could I believe in such a miracle of love?
could I?
the joy of it would have killed me.
"Divine creature!"
I cried, "is it to me that you speak?
can you thus deny yourself, deny your blissful self-sufficiency!
can you thus rejoice in me?
Oh, now I see, now I know, what I have dimly surmised so often: man is a garment that a god often wears» a cup into which heaven pours its nectar, that its childrerrrngy taste of the best^"— "Yes, yes!"
she interrupted me, smiling raptly, "your namesake, the glorious Hyperion of heaven, is in you."
.
"Let me," I cried, "let me be yours, let me forget myself» let all the life of body and spirit in me fly but to you; but to you, in blissful, endless contemplation!
O Diotima!
so did I once stand, too, before the shadowy divine image that my love created for itself, before the idofof my lonely dreams; I nourished it faithfully; I animated it with my life, with my heart's hopes I refreshed it, warmed it, but it gave me nothing save what I had given, and when I had become impoverished, it left me poor; and now!
now I have you in my arms and I feeljthe breath of your breast, and feel your eyes in my eyes, your 'Beautiful presence flows into all my senses, and I can bear it, now I possess all that is most glorious, and tremble no longer, yes!
truly I am not he who I was, Diotima!
I have become like you, and divinity plays with divinity like children playing together.
"— "But try to be a litde calmer," she said.
6 "You are right, my lovable one!"
I cried joyously; "if I am not, the Graces do not appear to me; if I am not, I do not see the sweet, subtle movements of Beauty's sea.
Oh, I will yet learn to overlook nothing of you.
Only give me time!"
"Flatterer!"
she cried, "but this must be the end for today, dear flatterer!
the golden cloud of evening has given me warning.
O be not sad!
Reserve this pure joy for you and for me!
Let it echo in you until tomorrow, and kill it not with discontent!
the heart's flowers need gentle care.
Their roots are everywhere, but they themselves flourish only in fair weather.
Farewell, Hyperion!"
She freed herself.
My whole being flamed up in me, as she vanished from me in her glowing beauty.
"O you!"
I cried, and ran after her and gave my soul into her hand in endless kisses.
"God!"
she cried, "what will come of this?"
That struck home.
"Forgive me, divine creature!"
I said, "I go.
Good night, Diotima!
Only think of me a little!"
"I will," she cried, "good night!"
And now not another word, my Bellarmin.
It would be too much for my longsuffering heart.
I feel I am shaken.
But I will go out among the plants and trees and lie down among them and pray that Nature may bring me to a quiet like theirs.
Hyperion to Bellarmin Our souls now lived ever more freely and beautifully together, and everything in us and around us fused into golden peace.
It seemed as if the old world had died and a new were beginning with us, so pure and strong and loving and light had everything become, and we and all that has being floated together in blissful union, like a chorus of a thousand inseparable tones, through the endless ether.
Our conversations glided on like a sky-blue stream from which the golden sand gleams now and again, and our silence was like the silence of the mountain peak, where, in glorious, lofty solitude, high above the realm of storms, only the air of heaven still murmurs through the bold traveler's hair.
And the wondrous, sacred grie£ when the hour of parting tolled through our exaltation, and I often cried: "Now we are mortal again, Diotima!"
and she said: "Mortality is illusion, is like the colors that quiver before our eyes when they have long looked at the sunr Ah!
and all the gracious pastimes of love!
the cajoling words, the misgivings, the sensitivities, the sternness and indulgence* And the all-embracing knowledge with which we saw through each other, and the infinite trust with which we glorified each other!
Yes!
man is a sun, all-seeing and all-illuminating, when he loves; loving not, he is a dark house in which a smoking lamp burns.
I should be silent, should forget and be silent.
But the bewitching flame tempts me until I plunge into it and, like the moth, perish.
Amid all this blessed, unrestrained giving and taking, I one day felt that Diotima was becoming more and more quiet.
I questioned, I implored; but that seemed only to make her yet more distant; finally she implored me to question her no more, to go, and, when I returned, to talk of something else.
That cast me, too, into a painful silence, which I found hard to bear.
It was as if an unbelievably sudden fate had vowed the death of our love, and all life was gone, from me and from all else.
I was ashamed of this feeling; I knew very well that chance did not govern Diotima's heart.
But what she was remained a mystery to me, and my pampered, disconsolate spirit ever demanded manifest and present love; for it, hidden treasures were lost treasures.
Ah!
in my happiness I had come to forget hope, at that time I was still like those impatient children who cry for the apple on the tree as if it were not there at all unless it is kissing their lips.
I knew no rest, again I implored, violently and meekly, in tenderness and anger, love armed me with all its invincible, humble eloquence, and now—O my Diotima!
now I had it, the enchanting confession, I have it now and shall keep it, until the tide of love brings me, too, with all that I am, back to our ancient home, to the bosom of Nature.
