Non coerced maximo, contineri minimo, divinum est.
(Not to be confined by the greatest, yet to be contained within the smallest, is divine.)
I would be glad if I could promise this book the affection of the German people.
But I fear that some of them will read it as a treatise and be too gready concerned with the fabula docet, whereas others will take it too lightly, and that neither the former nor the latter will understand it.
He who merely inhales the scent of my plant does not know it, and he who plucks it merely in order to learn from it does not know it either.
The resolution of dissonances in a particular character is neither for mere reflection nor for empty pleasure.
The scene of the events which follow is not new, and I confess that I was once childish enough to try to alter the book in this respect, but I soon became convinced that it was the only scene appropriate   to Hyperion's elegiac character and was ashamed that the presumable verdict of the public had rendered me so excessively pliable.
I regret that for the present it is not possible for everyone to judge of the plan of the book.
But the second volume will follow as soon as possible.
Book One Hyperion to Bellarmin Once again the dear earth of my native country brings me joy and sorrow.
Now every morning I am on the heights of the Corinthian Isthmus; and often, like a bee among flowers, my soul flies back and forth between die seas that, to left and right, cool the feet of my glowing mountains.
One of the two gulfs would have delighted me especially, had I stood here a thousand years ago.
Then, surging on like a conquering demigod between the beautiful wilderness of Helicon and Parnassus where the red dawn plays among a hundred snow-covered peaks, and the paradisal plain of Sicyon, the shining gulf undulated toward the city of joy, youthful Corinth, pouring out the captured wealth of every region before its favorite.
But what is that to me?
The cry of the jackal, changing his wild threnody amid the rubble of Antiquity, startles me from my dreams.
Fortunate the man whose native country flourishes to rejoice and strengthen his heart!
For me, it is as if I were cast into a swamp, as if the coffin lid were being nailed shut over me, if anyone reminds me of mine, and whenever I hear myself called a Greek, it is as if I were being bound with a dog collar.
And see, my Bellarmin, often when such a remark escaped me, and perhaps anger brought a tear to my eye, too, the knowing gentlemen who so much enjoy raising their voices among you Germans, and for whom a grieving heart makes the perfect opportunity to drag out their old sayings, yes, they were in their element, they presumed to tell me: "Do not complain, act!"
Oh that I had never acted!
By how many hopes should I be the richer!— Yes, only forget that there are men, O famished, beleaguered, infinitely troubled heart!
and return to the place from which you came, to the arms of Nature, the changeless, the quiet, the beautiful.
Hyperion to Bellarmin I have nothing of which I may say that it is mine.
Distant and dead are my loved ones, and no voice brings me news of them anymore.
My business on earth is over.
I set to work full of determination, I gave my blood to it, and made the world not a penny the richer.
Unknown and alone, I have returned to wander through my native country, which lies about me like a vast graveyard; and perhaps what awaits me is the knife of the hunter who preserves us Greeks for his sport even as he does the wild beasts erf the forest.
Yet still do you shine, Sun of Heaven!
Still do you grow green, sacred Earth!
Still the rivers roar to the sea, and shady trees rustle under the noon erf day.
Spring's song erf bliss sings my mortal thoughts to sleep.
The fullness of the living universe feeds and satisfies my starving being with its intoxication.
O Blessed Nature!
I know not how it is with me when I raise my eyes to your beauty, but all the joy of Heaven is in the tears that I weep in your presence, beloved of beloveds!
My whole being falls silent and listens when the delicate swell of the breeze plays over my breast.
Often, lost in the wide blue, I look up into the ether and down into the sacred sea, and I feel as if a, kindred spirit were opening its arms to me, as if the pain of solitude were dissolved in the life of the Divinity.
To be one with all—this is the life divine, this is/tnan's heaven.
To be one with all that lives, to return in blessed self-forgetfulness into the All of Nature—this is the pinnacle of thoughts and joys, this the sacred mountain peak, the place of eternal rest, where the noonday loses its oppressive heat and the thunder its voice and the boiling sea is as the heaving field of grain.
To be one with all that lives!
At those words Virtue puts off her   wrathful armor, the mind of man lays its scepter down, and all thoughts vanish before the image of the world in its eternal oneness, even as the striving artist's rules vanish before his Urania, and iron Fate renounces her dominion, and Death vanishes from the confederacy of beings, and indivisibility and eternal youth bless and beautify the world.
On this height I often stand, my Bellarmin!
But an instant of reflection hurls me down.
I reflect, and find myself as I was before— alone, with all the griefs of mortality, and my heart's refuge, the world in its eternal oneness, is gone; Nature closes her arms, and I stand like an alien before her and do not understand her.
O!
had I never gone to your schools!
The knowledge which I pursued down its tunnels and galleries, from which, in my youthful folly, I expected confirmation of all my pure joy—that knowledge has corrupted everything for me.
Among you I became so truly reasonable, learned so thoroughly to distinguish myself from what surrounds me, that now I am solitary in the beautiful world, an outcast from the garden of Nature, in which I grew and flowered, and am drying up under the noonday sun.
Oh, man is a god when he dreams, a beggar when he thinks; and when inspiration is gone, he stands, like a worthless son whom his father has driven out of the house, and stares at the miserable pennies that pity has given him for the road.
Hyperion to Bellarmin I thank you for asking me to tell you of myself, for making me remember earlier days.
What sent me back to Greece was wishing to live nearer to the places where I had played in my youth.
As the laborer into refreshing sleep» so my beleaguered being often sinks into the arms of the innocent past.
Peace of childhood!
heavenly peace!
how often do I pause before you in loving contemplation, and try to conceive of you!
But our concepts are only of what has degenerated and been repaired; of childhood, of innocence we have no concept.
When I was still a child and at peace, knowing nothing of all that is about us, was I not then more than now I am, after all my trouble of heart and all my thinking and struggling?
Yes, divine is the being of the child, so long as it has not been dipped in the chameleon colors of men.
The child is wholly what it is, and that is why it is so beautiful.
The pressure of Law and Fate touches it not; only in the child is freedom.
In the child is peace; it has not yet come to be at odds with itselt Wealth is in the child; it knows not its heart nor the inadequacy of life.
It is immortal, for it has not heard of death.
But this men cannot bear.
The divine must become like one of them, must learn that they, too, are there; and before Nature drives it out of its paradise, men entice and draw it out into the field of the curse, so that, like them, it shall drudge its life away in the sweat of its brow.
But the time of awakening is beautiful, too, if only we are not awakened unseasonably.
Oh, they are sacred days, in which our heart first tries its wings, in which, bursting with swift, fiery growth, we stand in the glorious world, like the young plant when it opens to the morning sun and stretches its tiny arms toward the infinite sky.
How was I driven then to the mountains, to the seashore!
O, how often I sat with throbbing heart on the heights of Una and watched the falcons and the cranes, and the bold, rejoicing ships as they vanished below the horizon!
"There," I thought, "there beyond the horizon you too will one day wander"; and I felt as the man dying of thirst feels when he flings himself into the cooling current and splashes the foaming water over his face.
Sobbing I would turn and go home then.
"If only," I often thought, "my school years were over!"
Innocent boy!
They are still far from over.
That in his youth a man thinks the goal is so near!
It is the most beautiful of all the illusions with which Nature supports the weakness of our being.
And often, when I lay there among the flowers, basking in the delicate spring light, and looked up into the serene blue that embraced the warm earth, when I sat under the elms and willows on  6  Friedrieb Hölderlin the side of the mountain, after a refreshing rain, when the branches were yet astir from the touch of the sky and golden clouds moved over die dripping woods; or when the evening star, breathing the spirit of peace, rose with the age-old youths and the other heroes of the sky, and I saw how the life in them moved on through the ether in eternal, effortless order, and the peace of the world surrounded and rejoiced me, so that I was suddenly alert and listening, yet did not know what was befalling me—"Do you love me, dear Father in Heaven," I whispered, and felt his answer so certainly and so blissfully in my heart.
O you to whom I cried, as if you were above the stars, whom I named Maker of Heaven and Earth, kindly idol of my childhood, do not be angry that I forgot you!—Why is the world not poor enough to make us seek Another outside of it?
* Oh, if glorious Nature is the daughter of a Father, is not the daughter's heart his heart?
Her inmost being, is it not He?
But then, do I possess it?
do I know it?
It is as if I saw, but afterward I am filled with fear again, as if what I saw had been my own shape; it is as if I felt it, the Spirit of the World, like a friend's warm hand, but I awake and realize that I was holding my own finger.
Hyperion to Bellarmin Do you know how Plato and his Stella loved each other?
So I loved, so was I loved.
Oh, I was a fortunate boy!
It is pleasant when like and like meet in friendship; but it is divine when a great man draws lesser men up to him.
A gracious word from a valiant heart, a smile under which the searing glory of the spirit hides itself, is little and is much, is like a magical password that conceals death and life in its simple syllable, is like living water that comes welling from the inmost recesses of the *It is scarcely necessary to say that no one can justly take offense at such expressions, which are no more than manifestations of a state of mind.
(Hölderlin^ note.)
mountains, imparting the secret strength of the earth to us in each of its crystal drops.
How I hate all the barbarians who imagine that they are wise because there is no more heart left in them!
all the self-important monstrosities who slay and desecrate beautiful youth a thousand times over with their petty, meaningless discipline!
God in heaven!
this is owls undertaking to drive eaglets from the nest and show them the way to the sun!
Forgive me, spirit of my Adamas, for mentioning these creatures before I speak of you.
That is all the profit that we gain from experience—to be able to think of nothing excellent without thinking of its distorted opposite.
Oh!
if only you were ever before me, with all that is akin to you, grieving demigod of whom I fondly think!
He whom you, O warrior and champion, enfold in your stillness and strength, he whom you encounter with your love and wisdom—let him either run away or become like you!
Meanness and weakness cannot survive beside you.
How often you were close to me when you were far from me and long had been, how often you illumined me with your light, warmed me so that my numbed heart moved again, like the frozen spring when heaven's ray touches it!
Oh, how I wished I could flee to the stars with my happiness, that it might not be debased by what was around me!
I had grown up like a grapevine without a prop» and the wild shoots trailed aimlessly over the ground.
You know how many a noble power perishes in us because it is unused.
I wandered like a will-o'-the-wisp, caught at everything, was caught by everything, but only for a moment, and my unskilled powers wore themselves out for nothing.
I felt that I was missing something everywhere, yet I could not find my goal.
Such was I when he found me.
He had long applied all his patience and his art to his material, the so-called cultivated world; but his material had been and had remained stone and wood, even if under compulsion it outwardly assumed the noble form of man; but that meant nothing to my Adamas.
He wanted men, and he had found his art too poor to create them.
Once upon a time they had existed, those whom he sought, those whom his art was too poor to create—this he knew for   a certainty.
Where they had existed he also knew.
He resolved to go there and search under the rubble for their genius and thus to occupy his lonely days.
He came to Greece.
Such he was when I found him.
I still see him come walking toward me, looking at me and smiling; I still hear his greeting and his questions.
As a man stands before a plant whose peace soothes his struggling spirit, and simple content returns to his soul—so he stood before me.
And I—was I not the echo of his quiet inspiration?
did not the melodies of his being repeat themselves in me?
What I saw, I became; and what I saw was divine.
How ineffectual is the best-intentioned diligence of men compared with the power of pure inspiration!
It does not stop at the surface, does not take hold of us here or there, needs no time and no means, has no use for command and coercion and persuasion; from all sides, at every level of depth and height, it seizes us instantly, and before we know it is there, before we can ask what is befalling us, it transforms us through and through, in all its beauty and bliss.
Well for him whom a noble spirit has thus encountered in early youth!
Oh, those are golden, unforgettable days, filled with the joys of love and sweet activity!
Soon Adamas led me, now into Plutarch's world of heroes, now into the magical land of the Greek gods; now he quieted my youthful impatience with arithmetic and geometry, now he climbed among the mountains with me—by day for field flowers and woodland flowers and the wild moss that grows on cliffs, by night that we might gaze at the sacred stars above us, and understand them as men may.
There is a precious sense of well-being in us when our inner life thus draws strength from what is its material, differentiates itself, and establishes truer inner relationships, and our mind gradually comes of age to bear arms.
But with threefold force did I feel him and myself when, like shades from a time long past, in pride and joy, in rage and grief, we climbed Mount Athos and from there sailed across to the Helles-   pont, then down to the shores of Rhodes and the mountain gorges of Taenarum, through all the quiet islands; when longing drove us from the coasts inland to the somber heart of ancient Peloponnesus, to the lonely banks of the Eurotas (ah!
the valleys, lifeless now, of Elis and Nemea and Olympia!
); when, leaning against a pillar of the temple of the forgotten Jupiter, with oleander and periwinkle all around us, we gazed into the wild riverbed, and the life of spring and the eveivyoung sun bade us think that once man was there and now is gone, that man's glorious nature, if it remains there at all, remains but like a shattered fragment of a temple, or only in memory, like the image of one dead—and there I sat, playing sadly beside him, scraping die moss from a demigod's pedestal, digging a marble hero's shoulder out of the rubble, cutting the brambles and headier from the half-buried architraves, while my Adamas sketched die landscape that embraced die ruin, kindly and comforting: the wheat-covered hillock, the olive trees, die flock of goats hanging from the mountain's cliffs, the forest of elms dropping down from the peaks to the valley; and the lizard played at our feet and the flies buzzed about us in the silence of noon—Dear Bellarmin, I want to tell you of it all, point by point like Nestor; I move through the past like a gleaner over the stubblefield when the landowner has harvested; he gathers up every straw.
And when I stood beside him on the heights of Delos, what a day it was that dawned for me as I climbed the ancient marble steps with him up the granite wall of Cynthus.
Here once the Sun God lived, amid the divine festivals at which all Greece shone round him like a sky of golden clouds.
Here the youth of Hellas plunged into full tides of joy and exaltation, as Achilles plunged into Styx, and came forth invincible as the demigod.
In the groves, in die temples, their souls awoke and echoed musically in one another, and every youth faithfully guarded the treasure of that enchanting harmony.
But why do I speak of this?
As if we still have even an inkling of those days!
Oh, not even a beautiful dream can flourish under the curse that weighs upon us!
Over the flowers of our spirit the present blows like a howling north-wind, blasting them even in the bud.
And yet it was a golden day that wrapped me there on Cynthus!
It was still gray dawn when we stood ön die summit.
Now he rose, the ancient Sun God, in his eternal youth; at peace and effortlessly as  1 ever, the immortal Titan soared up with the thousand joys that are his, and smiled down on his devastated country, on his temples, his pillars, which fate had thrown down before him like withered rose petals that a child heedlessly tore from the branch as it passed and scattered over the ground.
"Be you like him!"
Adamas cried, and grasped my hand and held it up toward the god; and it seemed to me that the winds of morning bore us along with them in the train of the divine being who now, in all his kindness and greatness, rose to the summit of the heavens, and in splendor filled the world and us with his spirit and his power.
My inmost heart still mourns and rejoices over every word that Adamas spoke to me then, and I cannot understand how I can feel destitute, when I often feel as he must then have felt.
What is loss, when a man finds himself in his own world?
In us is all.
Why should a man be miserable if a hair falls from his head?
Why does he struggle so fiercely for servitude, when he could be a god?
"You will be lonely, dear child!"
This, too, Adamas said to me dien.
"You will be like die crane whose brothers leave him behind in the harsh time of the year, while they go to seek spring in a far country!"
And there it is, dear friend!
It is this that makes us poor among all wealth, that we cannot be alone, that, so long as we live, love does not perish in us.
Give me my Adamas again, and come with all who are akin to me, that the old, beautiful world may be renewed among us, that we may join together and be one in the arms of our divinity, Nature—and lo!
I shall know nothing of lack.
But let no one tell me that Eate parts us!
It is we, we ourselves!
we delight in flinging ourselves into die night of the unknown, into the cold strangeness of any other world, and, if we could, we would leave the realm of the sun and rush headlong beyond the comet's track.
Ah!
for a man's wild heart no home is possible; and as the sun's ray shrivels the very plants of earth that it has brought to bloom, so man kills the sweet flowers that flourish in his heart, the joys of kinship and love.
I seem to be chiding my Adamas for forsaking me, but I am not.
Oh, he meant to come back!
A people of rare capacity is said to be hidden somewhere in the depths of Asia; there his hope drove him.
I went with him as far as Nio.
Those were bitter days.
I have learned to bear pain, but I have no strength for such a parting.
With every moment that brought the last hour nearer, it became more apparent how deeply this man was woven into the very texture of my being.
As one dying clings to his fleeing breath, so did my soul cling to him.
A few more days we passed at Homer's grave, and Nio became the most sacred of islands to me.
finally we tore ourselves away.
My heart had struggled until it was exhausted.
I was calmer at the last moment.
I knelt before him, embraced him for the last time with these arms.
"Give me a blessing, my father," I cried softly up to him, and he smiled; there was greatness in his smile, his brow widened in the light of the morning stars, his eye pierced the depths of the heavens—"Guard him for me," he cried, "you spirits of a better age!
and draw him up to your immortality; and all you kindly powers of Earth and Heaven, be with him!"
"There is a god in us," he added more quietly, "who guides destiny as if it were a river of water, and all things are his element.
Above all else, may he be with you!"
So we parted.
Farewell my Bellarmin!
Hyperion to Bellarmin How could I escape from myself, if I had not the sweet days of my youth?
Like a shade that finds no rest by Acheron, I return to the forsaken scenes of my life.
All things age and are rejuvenated.
Why are we excepted from this beautiful circling of Nature?
Or does it rule us, too?
I should believe so, were it not for one trait that is in us—the gigantic striving to be all things, which, like Aetna's Titan, rages up from the depths of our being.
And yet, who would not rather feel it within him, like seething oil, than acknowledge that he was born for the whip and the yoke?
A raging battlehorse, or a workhorse with hanging ears—which is the nobler?
Dear friend!
there was a time when my heart, too, basked under the sun of great hopes, when the joy of immortality pulsed in my every vein, when I roved among beautiful projects as through the  1 half light of a vast forest, when, happy as the fish in the sea in my boundless future, I pressed on, farther, ever farther* How boldly, blessed Nature!
did the youth leap from your cradle!
how he rejoiced in his untried weapons!
His bow was drawn, his arrows rattled in the quiver, and the immortals, the high spirits of Antiquity, led him on, and his Adamas was among them.
Wherever I went, wherever I stopped, their glorious presences were with me; in my thought the high deeds of all the ages were mingled together, and as those gigantic forms, the clouds of heaven, united in one exultant storm, so the hundredfold victories of the Olympiads were united in me, so did they become one never-ending victory.
Who can abide it, whom does it not lay low, as a hurricane lays low young woods, when the terrifying splendor of Antiquity seizes him as it seized me, when, as for me, die surroundings are lacking in which he might gain a strengthening self-reliance?
Oh, as for me, the greatness of the ancients bowed my head like a storm, swept the bloom from my face, and often I lay where no eye saw me, weeping a thousand tears, as a fallen fir tree lies by a stream and hides its faded crown in the water.
How gladly would I have paid with blood for one moment from the life of a great man!
But what use was that?
No one wanted me!
Oh, it is pitiful to see oneself so reduced to nothing; and let him who does not understand this ask no more but give thanks to Nature who made him, like the butterflies, for joy; let him go and never in his lifetime speak again of pain and unhappiness.
I loved my heroes as a moth loves the light; I sought their perilous presence, and fled, and sought it again.
As a bleeding stag plunges into the stream, so I often plunged into the whirlpool of pleasures, to cool my burning breast and bathe away the raging, glorious dreams of fame and greatness, but what use was that?
And when, as often toward midnight, my empassioned heart drove me down into the garden under the dewy trees, and the lullaby of the fountain and the sweet air and the moonlight soothed my thoughts, and the silver clouds moved in such freedom and peace above me, and from far away the fading voice of the sea qune faintly,   how graciously then did all the great phantoms that it loved play with my heart!
"Farewell, you heavenly spirits!"
I often said in thought, when above me the melody of the dawn's light began softly sounding.
"You glorious dead, farewell!
Would that I could follow you, would that I could cast off all that my century has given me, and make my way into the freer realm of the shades!
But I languish on the chain and snatch with bitter joy the miserly bowl that is offered to my thirst.
* * * Hyperion to Bellarmin My island had become too cramped for me, now that Adamas was gone.
For years, in fact, Una had bored me.
I wanted to go out into the world.
"Go to Smyrna first," said my father; "master the arts of navigation and war there, learn the speech of cultivated peoples and their political constitutions, their views, their manners and customs, investigate everything, and choose the best!—Go on from there, if you will."
"Learn a little patience, too," my mother added, and I accepted the advice gratefully.
To take die first step beyond the circle of youth is pure enchantment; it is as if I were thinking of my birthday when I think of my departure from Una.
There was a new sun above me, and I enjoyed land and sea and air as if for the first time.
The ardor and activity with which I now pursued my education in Smyrna, and my speedy progress, did not a little to calm my heart, and I remember, too, many a blissful holiday evening from that time.
How often I walked under the evergreen trees on the bank of the Meles, by the birthplace of my Homer, and picked an offering of flowers and cast them into the sacred stream!
Then in my peaceful dreams I approached the nearby grotto where, they say, the old man sang his load.
I found him.
Every sound in me was stilled by his  1 presence.
I opened his divine poem, and it was as if I had never known it, so differently did it now come to life in me.
I like to remember, too, my wanderings through the countryside around Smyrna.
It is a radiant land, and a thousand times I have wished I had wings, that once a year I might fly to Asia Minor.
From the plain of Sardis I climbed up die rock cliffs of Tmolus.
I had spent the night in a hospitable hut at the foot of the mountain, among myrdes and the scent of the labdanum-bearing cistus, where in the golden stream of Factolus the swans played beside me, where an ancient temple of Cybele looked out from the elms into the clear moonlight like a shy ghost, five lovely pillars mourned over the rubble, and a kingly portal lay fallen at their feet.
Now my path passed upward through a thousand blossoming shrubs.
Whispering trees leaned down from the rugged slope, dropping their delicate floss on my head.
I had set out with the morning.
By noon I reached the summit of the mountain.
I stood, looking happily about me, relishing the purer airs of the sky.
They were blessed hours.
Like a sea, the countryside from which I had climbed up lay spread before me, youthful, filled with living joy; spring's heavenly, unending play of colors greeted my heart; and, even as the Sun in the heavens found itself again in the thousand changes of light that die Earth sent back to him, so my spirit recognized itself in the fullness of life that was all about it, that beset it from every side.
To the left the stream, an exulting giant, plunged down into the woods from the marble cliff that hung over me, where the eagle played with his fledglings, where the snow-crowned peaks glittered up into the blue ether; to the right storm clouds came rolling over the forests of Sipylus; I did not feel the rushing wind that bore them on, I felt only a feint breeze in my hair; but I heard their thunder as we hear the voice of the future, and I saw their flames, like the distant light of dimly apprehended divinity.
I turned southward and walked on.
Now there lay before me the whole paradisal countryside through which the Caystrus flows in so many an enchanting meander, as if it could not linger long enough amid the profusion and loveliness that surrounds it.
Like the zephyrs, my spirit wandered blissfully from beauty to beauty, from unknown, peaceful villages lying deep at the foot of the mountain, on to where die chain of Messogis was dimly visible.
I came back to Smyrna like ajjomkSRinan from afea&t.
My heart was too full of pleasant things not to impart some of its abundance to mortal existence; Nature had yielded me too happy a treasure of her loveliness for me not to make good the deficiencies of human life with it.
My paltry Smyrna clad herself in the colors of my enthusiasm and stood before me like a bride.
Her flocking citizens attracted me.
The absurdity of their ways amused me like a children's prank; and since by nature I was above their established forms and customs, I played with them all, putting them on and taking them off like carnival costumes.
But what I now found giving some flavor to the insipid fare of daily life was the well-proportioned faces and figures that compassionate Nature still sends, here and there, like stars into our darkness.
What heartfelt pleasure I took in them!
With what faith did I read those smiling hieroglyphics!
But I had almost the same experience with them that I had had long ago with birches in spring.
I had heard of the sap of these trees and was amazed at the thought of what a precious drink their graceful stems must yield.
But there was neither strength nor life enough in it.
And, oh!
how irredeemably wanting was everything else that I heard and saw!
As I went now here, now there, among these people, it seemed to me that human nature had resolved itself into the multifarious species of die animal kingdom.
As everywhere, so here, too, the men were especially demoralized and corrupted.
Some animals howl when they hear music.
But my more man- nerly humans laughed when the conversation turned to beauty of spirit and virtue of heart.
Wolves run away when you strike a light.
When these men saw a spark of reason, they turned their backsjike thieves.
~ IF ever I happened to say a warm word for ancient Greece, they yawned and said that after all a man had to live in this day and age; and—someone else added sententiously—good taste had not perished from the earth.
And so I saw: one would crack jokes like a sailor, another puffed out his cheeks and delivered old sayings.
Yet another, to demonstrate what an advanced thinker he was, .would snap his fingers at Heaven and cry that he had never worried  1 ahautihe_hinkia_th.e bush, give him Jbirds in the hand!
Yet when death was mentioned he would at once clasp his hands, and as the conversation went on, would manage to put in that it was a very dangerous thing that our priests no longer had any influence.
The only people from whom I sometimes profited were the storytellers, the living gazettes of foreign cities and countries, the speaking peep-boxes in which one can see potentates on chargers and church steeples and markets.
At last I grew weary of wasting myself, of looking for grapes in the desert and flowers on a glacier.
I now lived more determinedly alone, and the sweet spirit of my youth had almost vanished from my heart.
The incurable corruption of my century became so apparent to me from so many things that 1 tell you and do not tell you, and my beautiful faith that I would find my world in one soul, that I would embrace my whole kind in one sympathetic being—that, too, was denied me.
Dear friend!
What would life be without hope?
A spark that leaps from coal and goes out, a blast of wind in the dreary time of the year, heard for a moment and then still forever—would it be so with us?
Even the swallow seeks a more hospitable country in winter, the wild beasts run here and there in the heat of the day, their eyes search for the stream.
Who tells the babe that its mother will not deny it the breast?
And yet it seeks for it!
Nothing would live if it did not hope.
My heart now shut away its treasures, but only to keep them safe for a better time, for the unique, the sacred revelation of fidelity that surely, at some epoch of my existence, would come to my thirsting soul.
How blissfully I often clung to it when, in hours of veiled anticipation, it played about me softly as moonlight, soothing my brow.
Even then I knew you; even then, maiden, you looked down at me from the clouds like a Genius—you who in time to come rose before me out of the turbid sea of the world in all the peace of beauty!
Then this heart struggled and burned no more.
As a lily sways in newly stilled air, so my being moved in its element, in my ravishing dreams of her.
Hyperion to Bellarmin Smyrna had lost all attraction for me now.
Altogether, my heart had grown gradually wearier.
At moments, to be sure, die wish could still take me to travel through the world, or to turn soldier and fight in some war, or to find my Adamas and burn my discontent to ashes in his fire; but that was as far as it ever went, and my meaningless, parched life refused to be renewed.
Soon summer was over; I already anticipated the sullen days of rain, and the whistling winds, and the roar of storm-swollen streams, and Nature, which had surged up into every plant and tree like a foaming fountain, now stood before my darkened apprehen- sion fading and closed and turned in upon itself, just as I was.
Yet I wanted to take with me what I could of all this fleeting life; everything outward to which I had become attached, I wanted to preserve within me, for I knew well that the returning year would not find me among these trees and mountains, so now I walked and rode more than ever before through the countryside.
But what most impelled me to go out was my secret longing to see a man whom for some little time I had come upon every day when I passed under the trees outside the city gate.
Like a young Titan, this noble stranger strode resplendent among that race of dwarfs, who fed upon his beauty in joyous dread, measured his tall stature and his strength, and with covert glances regaled themselves on the Roman majesty of his shining face, as upon forbidden fruit.
And it was a glorious moment each time that this man's eye, for whose glance the ether seemed too narrow, put off all pride and searched until, with an effort, it found its way to mine and, blushing, we gazed at each other and passed on.
One day I had ridden deep into the forest on Mount Mimas and did not start back until late in the evening.
I had dismounted and was leading my horse down a steep, wild path, over roots and stones.
As I was thus making my way through the underbrush into the gulf that now opened before me, a pair of Karaborniote robbers suddenly fell on me, and for a moment it was hard to fight off the two drawn sabers; but they were already tired from other work, so I managed.
I quiedy mounted my horse again and rode on.
At the foot of the mountain, between woods and soaring cliffs, a  1 little meadow opened before me.
It grew light.
The moon had just risen over the dark trees.
Some distance away I saw horses lying stretched out and men beside them on the grass.
"Who are you?"
I cried.
"That is Hyperion!"
cried a voice that rang like a hero's, in happy surprise.
"You know me," the voice continued; "I see you every day under the trees outside the city gate."
My horse flew to him like an arrow.
The moon shone bright on his face.
I recognized him; I sprang to the ground.
"Good evening!"
he cried, charming in his youthful vigor, and looked at me with his wild eyes subdued to tenderness, while his sinewy hand grasped mine so that the touch of it penetrated to my inmost being.
Oh!
now my meaningless life was at an end!
Alabanda (such was the stranger's name) now told me that he and his servant had been set upon by robbers, that the two I had come upon had been sent about their business by him, that he had missed the path out of the woods, and so had been obliged to stay where he was until I arrived.
"It has cost me a friend," he added, and pointed to his dead horse.
I turned mine over to his servant, and he and I set out together on foot.
"It served us right," I began, as, arm in arm, we made our way out of the wood; "why did we hesitate so long and pass each other by, until misfortune brought us together?"
"But it was you, I must tell you," answered Alabanda, "who were most to blame; you were the colder.
I rode after you today."
"Noble youth!"
I cried, "wait and see!
You shall never surpass me in love!"
We became ever more intimate and happier together.
Near to the city we passed a well-built caravansary, set peacefully among murmuring brooks and fruit trees and sweet-scented meadows.
We decided to spend the night there.
For a long time we sat on together by the open window.
The high silence of spirit enveloped us.
Earth and ocean were blissfully silent, like the stars that hung above us.
It was much if even a breeze flitted into the room from the sea and played delicately with the candle, or if the stronger tones of   more distant music penetrated to us, while the thunderclouds lulled themselves to sleep in the bed of the ether, now and again to sound distantly, as a sleeping giant breathes more heavily in his dreaded dreams.
Our souls were impelled toward each other all the more strongly because they had come together against our will.
We met like two brooks that, pouring from a mountain, throw off their burden of earth and stone and rotten wood and the whole sluggish chaos that holds them back, determined to clear the way to each other, to burst through until, clasping and clasped with equal force, they set out, mingled in one majestic stream, on their long journey to the sea.
He, driven by fate and human barbarity from his own home to wander among strangers, embittered and unguided from early youth, and yet with his inmost heart full of love, full of longing to break out of the coarse husk and win through into a congenial element; I, already so profoundly cut off from everything, so utterly and determinedly a stranger and alone among men, with the most precious melody of my heart so absurdly accompanied by all the world's tinkling bells; I, the scorn and aversion of all the lame and the blind, and yet in my own judgment only too lame and blind, so intolerably burdensome to myself by everything in me that was even distantly akin to worldly wisdom and pseudo-reason, to the barbarians and the would-be wits—and so full of hope, so single-mindecfly awaiting but one thing, a more beautiful l i f e - Was it not inevitable that these two youths should embrace each other in such joyous and impetuous haste?
O my friend and brother-in-arms, my Alabanda!
where are you?
I almost believe that you have made your way to the unknown land, to rest, have become again what once we were as children.
Sometimes, when a storm passes over me, dispensing its divine powers among woods and sown fields alike, or when the waves of the sea play together, or a choral train of eagles soars about the mountain peaks among which I am wandering, my heart can stir as if my Alabanda were not far away.
But more visibly, more presently^ more unmistakably does he live in me—the whole man—as once he stood, stern and aglow and terrible, denouncing the sins of this century.
How my spirit awoke in its depths!
how the thundering words of implacable justice rolled on my tongue!
Like messengers of  2 Nemesis, our thoughts journeyed over the whole earth, purifying it until no trace of a curse remained.
We summoned the past, too, before our bar of justice, and proud Rome did not cow us with its splendor nor Athens corrupt us with its youthful bloom.
As storms, exulting in their unwearied play, travel on through forests, over mountains, so our souls drove ever forward in colossal projects—not that we effeminately created our world as by a magic spell and, childishly inexperienced, expected no resistance; Ala- banda was too intelligent and too brave for that.
But even spontaneous enthusiasm is often militant and shrewd.
One day is especially present to me.
We had gone to the country together and were sitting with our arms trustfully around each other in the dark shade of an ever green laurel, looking at our Plato—the passage where he speaks with such wondrous sublimity of aging and rejuvenation, and from time to time we rested, looking out over the mute, leafless landscape, where the sky, playing with clouds and sunlight, was more than ever beautiful among the autumnally sleeping trees.
We then spoke much of Greece as it is today, both of us with bleeding hearts, for the desecrated soil was Alabanda's native country too.
Alabanda was moved to a degree most unusual in him.
"When I see a child," he cried, "and think how shameful and stultifying is the yoke that it will bear, and that it will starve as we do, look for men as we do, search after truth and beauty as we do, will waste away in bairen pining because it is alone as we are, that it— O men of this land!
take your sons from the cradle and cast them into the river, that at least they will be spared your ignominy!"
"Surely, Alabanda," said I, "surely, it will not always be so."
"What can change it?"
he answered.
"Our heroes have lost their fame, our wise men their pupils.
Great deeds, when there is no people to understand them, are no more than a powerful blow on an unresponsive brow, and high words, when they do not echo in high hearts, are like a dying leaf rustling down onto dung.
What are you going to do?"
"I will take a shovel and throw the dung into a pit.
A people   among whom spirit and greatness no longer engenders any spirit and any greatness has nothing in common with other peoples who are still men, has no more rights, and it is an empty farce, sheer superstition, to go on honoring such will-less corpses as if a Roman heart beat in them» Away with them!
The withered, decaying tree jshall not stand where it stands, it steals light and air from the young life that is ripening for a new world!"
Alabanda flew to me and embraced me, and his kisses penetrated to my soul» "Companion in the fight!"
he cried, "dear brother!
oh, now I have a hundred arms!
"I have heard my melody at last," he continued, in a voice that stirred my heart like a battle cry; "it is enough!
You have spoken a glorious word, Hyperion» What!
shall the god be dependent upon die worm?
The god in us, for whose road infinity lies open—shall he stand and wait until the worm crawls out of his way?
No!
no!
We do not ask if you are willing, you slaves and barbarians!
You are never willing!
Nor will we try to make you better, for that is useless!
We will but make certain that you get out of the way of humanity's victorious career!
Oh!
let someone light a torch for me, that I may burn the weeds from the field, let someone lay me the mine with which I can blow the dull clods from the face of the earth!"
5 "When possible, we should but gendy push them aside,"91 interrupted» Alabanda was silent for a while» "I find my joy in the future," he began again at last, and ardently seized both my hands» "Thank God, I shall come to no common end!
To be happy means to be sleepy, in the language of slaves» Happiness!
it is as if I had pap and lukewarm water in my mouth when they talk to me of happiness» So vapid and so irredeemable is all for which you slaves give up your laurel crowns, your immortality!
"Oh, holy light, which, moving tirelessly above us, fills all its immense realm with its power and imparts its soul even unto me in the rays that I drink—may your bliss be mine!
"The children of the sun live by their deeds; they live by victory; their own spirit rouses them, and their strength is their joy."
The spirit of this man often laid hold of me with such force that I  2 might well have felt ashamed of being snatched up and carried away like a feather.
"O Heaven and Earth!"
I cried, "this is joy!—This is another age, this is no voice from my infantile century, this is not the soil on which the heart of man pants under the oppressor's whip,—Yes!
yes!
by your glorious soul, O man!
you will save my fatherland!"
"So I will,* he cried, "or perish."
From that day on we became ever more sacred, ever dearer to each other.
A gravity of purpose that was indescribably profound had arisen between us.
Each of us lived only in the eternal fundamental Jones of his being, and we moved austerely from one great harmony to another.
Our life together was filled with glorious sternness and courage.
"Whatever has made you so tongue-tied?"
Älabanda once smilingly asked me.
"In the tropical regions, nearer the sun," said I, "the birds do not sing either."
But everything is now up, now down in this world, and man, for all his gigantic powers, holds on to nothing.
I once saw a child put out its hand to catch the moonlight; but the light went calmly on its way.
So do we stand trying to hold back ever-changing Fate.
Oh, that it were possible but to watch it as peacefully and meditatively as we do the circling stars!
The happier one is, the less it takes to destroy one, and such blissful days as Alabanda and I were living are like a steep cliff where your traveling companion has but to touch you to fling you involuntarily down over the jagged edge into the lightless depths.
We had made a glorious voyage to Chios, had found a thousand joys in each other.
Like breezes over the plain of the sea, the kindly enchantment of Nature had played about us.
We looked at each other in happy surprise, without speaking, but our eyes said: I have never seen you like this.
So gloriously transfigured were we by the powers of Earth and Heaven.
We had argued, too, gaily and ardently, over many things during the voyage; as so often before, I had taken the most heartfelt delight in watching that spirit on its bold, erratic course, following its path in such unconstrained gladness still for the most part so unfalteringly.
No sooner had we landed than we hastened to be alone.
"You cannot persuade anyone," I cried with fondest love; "you convince men, you win them over, before you begin.
When you speak, none can doubt; and he who does not doubt is not persuaded."
"Proud flatterer!"
he cried in answer.
"You lie!
But you have given me a timely reminder.
Only too often have you made me forsake reason!
Nor for the world and all its crowns would I be freed of you, but it often troubles me that you are so indispensable to me, that I am so bound to you.
And since," he continued, "you possess me so entirely, it is time that you knew me entirely!
Amid all these splendors and all our joys, we have not thought of looking back at the past."
And he told me the story of hislife; I felt as if I were watching a young Hercules battling with Megaera.
"Now will you forgive me," he ended the tale of his adversities, "will you take it more calmly if I am often harsh and offensive and intolerable?"
"Be silent, silent!"
