I cried, moved to the depths; "it is wonder enough that you are still here, that you kept yourself alive for me!"
"Yes, for you!"
he cried, "and it rejoices my heart that I am still a palatable dish for you.
And if I sometimes taste like a crab apple to you, squeeze me in the press until I am fit to drink."
"Let me be!
let me be!"
I cried; I strove in vain, the man turned me into a child, and I could not hide it from him; he saw my tears, and woe to him if he had not the right to see them!
"We are rioting in pleasures," Alabanda began again; "we are wasting time in drunkenness."
"We are celebrating our betrothal," I cried gaily, "it is only right that it should sound as if we were in Arcadia.—But to return to what we were talking of earlier!
"You accord the state far too much power.
It must not demand what it cannot extort.
But what love gives, and spirit, cannot be extorted.
Let the state leave that alone, or we will take its laws and whip them into the pillory!
By Heaven!
he knows not what his sin is who would make the state a school of morals.
The state has always been made a hell by man's wanting to make it his heaven.
"The state is the coarse husk around the seed of life, and nothing more.
It is the wall around the garden of human fruits and flowers.
2 "But is the wall around the garden of any help when the soil lies parched?
Only the rain from heaven helps then.
"O rain from heaven!
O inspiration!
you will bring us the springtime of peoples again.
The state cannot command your presence.
But let it not obstruct you, and you will come, come with your all- conquering ecstasies, will wrap us in golden clouds and carry us up above this mortal world; and we shall marvel and wonder if this is still we, we who in our poverty asked the stars if a spring bloomed for us among them.—Do you ask me when this will be?
It will be when the darling of Time, the youngest, loveliest daughter of Tune, the new Church, will arise out of these polluted, antiquated forms, when the awakened feeling of the divine will bring man his divinity, man's heart its beautiful youth again, when—I cannot prophesy it, for my eyes are too dim to surmise it, but it will come, that I know for certain.
Death is a messenger of life, and that we now lie asleep in our infirmaries testifies that we shall soon awaken to new health.
Then, and not till then, shall we exist, then, then will our spirit's element have been found!"
Alabanda was silent and gazed at me for a moment in astonishment.
I was carried away by boundless hopes; divine forces bore me on like a summer cloud— "Come!"
I cried and grasped his garment, "come!
who can any longer abide in the prison that darkens around us?"
"Come where, my enthusiast?"
Alabanda answered drily, and a shadow of mockery seemed to pass over his face.
I was as if fallen from the clouds.
"Go!"
I said, "you are a small man!"
At that moment some strangers entered the room.
They were striking figures, haggard and pale for the most part, so far as I could see by the moonlight, and calm, but there was something in their countenances that pierced the soul like a sword, and it was as if one were standing in the presence of omniscience; one would have doubted that this was the outward form of creatures subject to needs, if here and there slain emotion had not left its traces.
One of them struck me especially.
The stillness of his features was the stillness of a battlefield.
Wrath and love had raged in this man, and understanding shone over the wreckage of feeling like the eye of a hawk perched upon ruined palaces.
Profound contempt was on his lips.
One felt that this man was bent upon no insignificant purpose.
Another appeared to owe his calm rather to a natural hardness of heart.
He showed almost no trace of violence perpetrated either by his own will or by Fate.
A third seemed rather to have wrested his coldness from life by the force of his conviction, and still to be often at odds with himself; for there was a concealed contradiction in his being, and I thought that he had to keep a tight rein on himself.
Of them all, he spoke the least.
As they entered, Alabanda sprang up like bent steel.
aWe have been seeking you," one cried.
"You would find me," he said with a laugh, "if I were hidden at the center of the earth.
They are my friends," he added, turning to me.
They seemed to scrutinize me with a certain severity.
"He, too, is one of those who would see the world a better place," Alabanda cried after a moment, and pointed to me.
aAre you serious in this?"
one of the three asked me.
"It is no joking matter to better the world," said I. aYou have said much in little!"
cried one.
aYou are our man!"
added another.
"Are you of the same mind as I?"
I asked.
"Ask what we are doing," came the answer.
aAndifIasked?"
aWe would tell you we are here to purge the earth, that we clear the stones from die field and break up the hard clods with the mattock and draw furrows with the plow, that we grasp the rank growth by the roots, cut it through at die roots, and tear it up by the roots, so that it shall wither in the burning sun."
"Not that we may reap»" another interrupted; "the reward of our labors will come too late for us; the harvest will not ripen in our time.
"We are at the evening of our days.
We often went wrong, we hoped much and did little.
We ventured rather than deliberated.
We were eager to have done and trusted to luck.
We spoke much of joy and sorrow and loved and hated them both.
We played with fate, and fate with us.
It tossed us high and low, from beggar's staff to crown.
It swung us as one swings a glowing censer, and we glowed until the coals turned to ashes.
We have ceased to speak of good and evil fortune.
We have grown beyond the midpoint of life, where it is  2 green and warm.
But it is not the worst in man that outlives youth.
The cold sword is forged from hot metal.
They say that grapes grown on burned-out, dead volcanoes yield no bad cider."
"We say this not for our sake," another now cried in more hurried tones, "but for yours!
We do not go begging for mens> hearts.
For we need neither their hearts nor their wills.
For men are in no case against us, since everything is for us, and the fools and the cunning, the simple and the wise, and all the vices and virtues of incivility and good breeding are at our service without hire and blindly help us on toward our goal—we only hope that some might be found to know the joy of it, and so, among our thousand blind helpers, we choose out the best, that we may make them into seeing helpers—but if no one wants to live where we have built, it is neither our fault nor our loss.
We did what was for us to do.
If no one wants to reap where we plowed, who can blame us for that?
Who upbraids the tree when its fruit falls into the mire?
I have often said to myself 'You are sacrificing to decay,' and yet I finished my day's work."
"These are traitors!"
the very walls dinned into my sensitive heart.
I felt like one suffocating in smoke, breaking open doors and windows to escape—so did I thirst for air and freedom.
They soon saw, too, how uneasy I felt, and broke off.
Day was already dawning when I stepped out of the boat where we had been together.
I felt the morning breeze like balsam on a burning wound.
I was already too irritated by Alabanda's mockery not to be completely confused by his having these mysterious friends.
"He is evil," I cried, "yes, evil!
He feigns unbounded trust, and consorts with such as these—and hides it from you!"
I felt like a girl who learns that her betrothed is secretly living with a whore.
Oh, it was not the grief that one can cherish, that one carries in one's heart like a child, that sings in sleep with the voice of the nightingale!
Like a raging snake that, gliding implacably up legs and loins to coil round every limb, sinks its poisonous fangs now into its victim's chest, now into his back—so it held me in its terrible embrace.
I summoned all the courage of my heart to my aid, and struggled for noble thoughts, that I might remain calm; for a few moments I succeeded, but now I had gained strength enough for fury, and now, as if it were arson, I killed every spark of love in me.
"He must," I thought, "yes—for these are his friends—he must be conspiring with them against you!
But what did he want with you?
What could he have been trying to get from you and your enthusiasm?
Oh, had he but gone his way!
But these people have a strange desire to take up with their opposite!
to have some peculiar animal in their stables suits them to perfection!
"— And yet I had been unspeakably happy with him, had so often sunk into his embraces only to awaken from them with my heart invincible, had so often been hardened and refined in his fire like steel!
On one serene midnight, when I pointed out the Dioscuri to him, Alabanda laid his hand on my heart and said: "These are but stars, Hyperion, by which the name of the heroic brotfiers is written in the sky; but they are in us, living and true, with their courage and their jdivine love, and you!
you are the son of a God and share your immortality with your mortal Castor!
"— When once f wandered through the forests of Ida with him, and we made our way down into the valley that we might ask the silent grave mounds there to tell us of their dead, and I said to Älabanda that one among them might perhaps belong to the spirit of Achilles and his beloved, and Alabanda confided to me that he was often childish enough to think that we would fall together in one battle-torn valley and rest together under one tree—who then would have thought what was to come?
I reflected with all the power of thought that remained to me, I accused him, defended him, accused him again all the more bitterly; I struggled against my emotions, determined to be cheerful, and thereby only plunged myself in blackest darkness.
Ah!
my eye was already so sore from many blows, was only just beginning to heal—how could it see more healthily now?
Alabanda visited me the next day.
My heart boiled when he entered, but I controlled myself, however much his pride and imperturbability agitated and infuriated me.
"The air is glorious," he said at last, "and it will be a very beautiful evening; let us go up to the Acropolis together!"
I accepted.
For a long time we said not a word.
"What do you want?"
I at last asked.
"Can you ask me that?"
the tameless youth answered, with a melancholy that pierced my soul.
I was stricken, bewildered.
2 "What am I to think of you?"
I began again at last.
"What I am," he answered calmly.
"You must cleanse yourself," I said in a changed voice, and looked at him proudly, "cleanse yourself!
absolve yourself!"
That was too much for him.
"How does it happen," he cried indignantly, "that this fellow can twist me as he pleases?—True enough, I was turned out of school too early.
I had dragged all chains and I had broken them, only one remained, only one was still to be snapped, I had not yet been chided by a weathercock of a fellow—stop your muttering, I have kept silent long enough!"
"O Alabanda, Alabanda," I cried.
"Be still," he answered; "and use not my name as a dagger against me."
Now anger raged uncontrolled in me, too.
We did not rest until any turning back was well-nigh impossible.
We violently destroyed the garden of our love.
Often we stopped and stood silent, and oh so gladly, so joyously would we have fallen on each other's necks; but accursed pride stifled every tone of love that rose from our hearts.
"Farewell!"
I cried at last, and rushed away.
But against my will I looked back, and against his will Alabanda had followed me.
"A strange beggar, is he not, Alabanda?"
I cried; "he throws his last penny into the bog!"
"If he does, then let him go hungry!"
he cried, and left me.
I staggered away, stupefied.
Then I was standing by the sea, gazing at the waves—ah!
it was beneath them that my heart longed to be, there beneath them, and my arms flew toward the unfettered tide; but soon, as if from heaven, a gentler spirit came over me and restrained my unruly, sorrowing heart with its peaceable rod; more tranquilly now, I reflected on the course of my life, my belief in the world, my cheerless experiences, I considered men, as I had felt them and known them from my early youth, men of the most various upbringing, and everywhere I found but false notes, muffled or strident; only in the simple confines of the child did I find pure melodies—"It is better," I said to myself, "to become as the bee and build one's house in innocence, than to rule with the masters of the world and howl with them as with wolves, than to dominate peoples and befoul one's hands with that unclean material."
I wanted to go back to Una and live for my gardens and fields.
Smile if you will!
I was utterly serious.
If the life of the world consists in an alternation between opening and closing, between going forth and returning, why is it not even so with the heart of man?
To be sure, I found this new lesson hard to accept; to be sure, I dreaded turning from the error of my youth—who gladly tears pff his wings?—but it had to be so!
I went through with it.
I took ship.
A fresh wind from the mountains drove me out of the harbor of Smyrna.
In a miraculous peace, exactly like a child that knows nothing of the instant to come, I lay in my bark and gazed at the trees and mosques of the city, my eyes traced my green walks along the shore, the path by which I climbed the Acropolis, I saw them and let them go, recede farther and farther; but now, as I came out into the open sea, and everything slowly sank down behind me, like a coffin into a grave, suddenly it was as if my heart had broken—"O Heaven!"
I cried, and all the life in me awoke and strove to hold back the fleeing present, but it was gone, gone!
Like a mist it lay before me, the divine land where, like a deer free of the meadow, I had wandered far and wide through valleys and mountains, and brought the echo of my heart to springs and streams, to the distances and depths of the earth.
There inland I had climbed Tmolus in solitary innocence; down there where Ephesus once stood in its happy youth and Teos and Miletus, up there in the sacred, mourning Troad, I had wandered with Alabanda, with Alabanda!
and there like a god I had ruled him, and like a tender, confiding child I had obeyed his eye in joy of soul, with the most intense delight in his being, always happy, whether I held his horse for him or, carried above myself, I met his soul in glorious resolves, in daring thoughts, in the fire erf eloquence!
And now it was all over, now I was nothing, now I had been so irremediably deprived of everything, had become the poorest of men, and did not myself know how.
"O eternal labyrinth!"
I thought, "when will man escape from your chains?"
We speak of our hearts, of our plans, as if they were ours; yet there is a power outside of us that tosses us here and there as it pleases until it lays us in the grave, and of which we know not whence it comes nor where it is bound.
3 We want to grow upward, and spread wide our branches and twigs, yet soil and weather bring us to whatever is to be, and when the lightning strikes your crown and splits you to die roots, poor tree!
what part do you have in it?
So I thought.
Are you displeased, my Bellarmin?
There is yet more that you must hear.
The sad thing, dear friend, is that our mind so eagerly assumes the posture of our erring heart, so fondly clings to passing grief, that thought, which should heal sorrows, itself sickens, that the gardener, charged with planting rosebushes, so often tears his hand on them—oh!
this has made a fool of many a man before others whom, but for this, he would have ruled like an Orpheus, this has so often made the noblest nature a laughingstock to such fellows as can be found in every street, this is the hidden reef for the favored of Heaven—that their love is strong and tender like their spirit, that their hearts are often stirred to motions swifter and more impetuous than the waves that the God of the Sea governs with his trident; and so, my friend, let none be proud!
Hyperion to Bellarmin Can you listen, will you understand, if I tell you of my long sickness of grief?
Accept me as I present myself, and consider that it is better to die because one has lived than to live because one never lived!
Envy not the carefree, the wooden images who want nothing because their souls are so lacking in everything, who do not ask if the sun will shine or the rain fall, because they have nothing to cultivate.
Yes: yes!
it is very easy indeed to be happy and at peace, with a shallow heart and a narrow mind.
Let them enjoy it; who goes into a passion if the wooden target does not cry when the arrow strikes it, if the empty pot gives such a hollow sound when someone throws it against the wall?
Only, dear people, you must resign yourselves, and hold your tongues and wonder, if you cannot understand that others are not so happy as you are nor so self-satisfied; you must beware of making   your wisdom law, for obedience to you would be the end of the world« y I was now living very quietly and unpretentiously in Tina.
I really succeeded in letting the shows of the world pass by like mists in autumn, and laughed sometimes too with tears in my eyes—at my heart, when it went flying off to regale itself like the bird that pecks at painted grapes, yet I remained unsoured and unperturbed* I grudged no one his opinions or his improprieties* I was converted, I no longer wished to convert others; it only saddened me when I saw that people believed that I did not interfere with their clownish behavior because I esteemed it as highly as they did* I was not willing actually to subject myself to their nonsense, but I tried to let it pass wherever I could* "It is all the pleasure they have," I thought, "it is their life!"
Often I was even pleased to join in with them, and yet, however apathetically and unspontaneously I made the effort, not one of them ever noticed, not one of them was aware of any lack in me, and had I asked them to excuse me, they would have stood there wondering and asked: "But what have you done to us?"
What forbearance they showed!
Often in the morning when I stood at my window and the busy day began to pour in upon me, I could even forget myself for a moment, I could look about me as if I were going to undertake something in which my being could still find delight, as once it did; but then I would rebuke myself, I would recollect myself like one who inadvertently utters a word of his mother tongue in some country where no one understands it—"Where are you going, my heart?"
I enjoined myself prudently, and obeyed* "What is it for which man so immeasurably longs?"
I often asked myself; "what is eternity doing in his breast?
Eternity?
Wherei&jt?
who has ever seen it?
Man wants more than he is capable of!
that seems to be the truth of it!
Oh, you have experienced it often enough!
And as it is, so it must be* This it is which bestows the sweet, rapturous sense of power, that our powers do not flow forth as they will; this it is, and nothing else, which creates our fair dreams of immortality and all the enticing, all the colossal phantoms that ravish men a thousand times over; this it is which creates his Elysium and his gods for man, that die line of his life does not run  3 straight, that he does not speed to his goal like an arrow, that a power outside of him stops him in his flight.
"The heat's surging wave would not foam up so beautifully and become spirit, did not the ancient cliff of Fate stand silendy opposing it.
"Yet, even so, the impulse dies in our breast, and with it our gods and their heaven.
"The fire leaps up in shapes of joy from the dark cradle in which it slept, and its flame rises and falls, is gone and comes laughing back again, until that on which it fed is consumed; now it smokes and struggles and dies; what remains is ashes.
"So it is with us.
This is the heart of all that the wise teach us in forbidding and enticing mysteries.
"And you?
why do you concern yourself?
That now and again something rises up in you, and in one instant, like a dying man's mouth, your heart opens itself to you with such power and closes again—that is precisely the fatal symptom.
"Only be still and let things take their course!
Stop devising!
Stop childishly trying to add a foot to your height!—It is as if you wanted to create another sun and new creatures for it to nourish, to bring forth an earth and a moon."
So I dreamed on.
Patiently, little by little, I took leave of everything.—O you who live in this age with me!
seek not counsel of your doctors nor of your priests when your hearts wither away!
You have lost all faith in anything great; you are doomed, then, doomed to perish, unless that faith returns, like a comet from unknown skies.
Hyperion to Bellarmin There is a forgetting of all existence, a hush of our being, in which we feel as if we had found everything.
There is a hush, a forgetting of all existence, in which we feel as if we had lost everything, a night of our soul, in which no glimmer of any star nor even the fire from a rotting log gives us light.
I had become quiet.
No longer did anything drive me from bed at midnight.
No longer did I singe myself in my own flame.
Now I looked straight before me, alone and impassive, nor did my eyes roam over the past and the future.
No longer now did far and near jostle together in my mind.
Unless men forced me I did not see them.
Once this century lay before my mind's eye like the eternally empty cask of the Danaides, and my soul poured itself out with c prodigal love, to fill the void; now I saw no more void, now the ennui of life no longer oppressed me.
Never now did I say to the flower, "You are my sister," and to the springs, "We are of one race."
Now, like an echo, I faithfully gave each thing its name.
Like a river past arid banks, where no willow leaf mirrors itself in the water, the world flowed past me untouched by beauty.
Hyperion to Bellarmin Nothing can grow, nothing so utterly wither away, like man.
He often compares his woe with the darkness of the abyss, his bliss with die ether, and how little does that tell of either?
But nothing is more beautiful than when, after a long death, it begins to dawn in him and sorrow goes like a brother to meet distantly dawning joy.
Oh, it was with a heavenly anticipation that I now greeted the returning spring!
Like the far music of the beloved's lyre in windless air when all is asleep, so spring's soft melodies sounded about my breast; as if from distant Elysium, so I felt its coining, when the dead twigs stirred and a soft air brushed my cheek.
Lovely sky of Ionia!
Never had I so looked to you; but never had my heart been so like you as dien in its playful gaiety, its playful tenderness.— Who does not long for the joys of love and for high deeds when spring returns to die eye of Heaven and the bosom of Earth?
I rose as from a sickbed, quietly and slowly, but my breast trembled so blissfully with secret hopes that I quite forgot to ask what this might mean.
More beautiful dreams now wrapped me when I slept, and when I woke they were in my heart, like die trace of a kiss on the cheek of  3 the beloved.
Oh!
the morning light and I—we went to meet each other now like newly reconciled friends when they still hold back and yet already bear in their souls the coming, endless moment of their embrace.
Now once again my eye truly opened—not, to be sure, as once it did, armed and filled with strength from within me; it had become more entreating, it begged for life, but in my heart of hearts it was as if I could be again what once I had been, and better.
I looked at men again as if I, too, was to work among them and rejoice with them.
I cordially and sincerely committed myself everywhere.
Heavens!
what a sight for them to gloat over—the proud nonconformist brought low, become one of themselves!
What a joke: the wild deer of the forest driven by hunger to come running into their barnyard!— Ah!
I looked for my Adamas, for my Alabanda, but neither erf them appeared to me.
Finally, I even wrote to Smyrna, and, as I wrote, it was as if all the tenderness and all the strength of humanity were concentrated in that one moment; three times I wrote thus, but no answer came, I implored, threatened, evoked all our hours of love and courage, but no answer came from him of imperishable memory, from him whom I loved beyond life—"Alabanda!"
I cried, "O my Alabanda!
you have pronounced my death sentence.
You kept me from falling, you were the last hope of my youth!
Now I want nothing more, now it is sworn and sealed!"
We pity the dead as if they felt death, yet the dead have peace.
But the pain, the pain that no pain equals, is the incessant feeling of utter annihilation when our life loses its meaning, when our heart bids itself "Down!
into the depths!
there is nothing left of you; you have planted no flower, built no hut, so that you might but say: I leave a trace behind me on earth."
Yet, oh!
the soul can always be so full erf longing, even when it is so cast down!
I still sought for something, but I did not dare to raise my eyes in the presence of men.
I went through hours when I feared the laughter of a child.
Yet for the most part I was perfectly quiet and patient, I even had a   strangely superstitious belief in the healing power of many things, from a dove that I bought, a row that I took, a valley that the mountains hid from me, from these I could hope for comfort« Enough!
enough!
Had I grown up with Themistocles, had I lived among the Scipios, my soul would never have come to know itself in this light.
Hyperion to Bellarmin At times some energy would even yet waken in my spirit.
But only for destruction!
What is man?—so I might begin; how does it happen that the world contains such a thing, which ferments like a chaos or moulders like a rotten tree, and never grows to ripeness?
How can Nature tolerate this sour grape among her sweet clusters?
To the plants he says: I, too, was once like you!
and to the pure stars: I shall become like you in another world!—meanwhile he M s to pieces and keeps practicing his arts on himself as if, once it had come apart, he could put a living thing together again like a piece of masonry; but it does not disconcert him if nothing is the better for all his efforts; yet what he does will always be but artifice.
Oh, you wretches who feel all this, who, even as I, cannot allow yourselves to speak of man's being here for a purpose, who, even as I, are so utterly in the clutch of the Nothing that governs us, so profoundly aware that wejare born for nothing, that we lqyea nothing, believe in nothing, work ourselves to death for nothing only "that little by little we may pass over into nothing—how can I heiß jt if your knees collapse when you think of it seriously?
Many a time Tiave I, too, sunk into these bottomless thoughts, and cried out: Why do you lay the axe to my root, pitiless spirit?—and still I am here.
Oh, once, my brothers in darkness, it was otherwise.
Then all was so fair above us, all so fair and joyous before us; our hearts, too, overflowed before the distant, blessed phantoms, our spirits, too, strove upward bold and exulting and broke the barriers—and, when they looked about, alas, there was only endless emptiness.
Oh, I can fall to my knees and wring my hands and pray—but to  3 whom?—for other thoughts.
But I cannot overcome it, the screaming truth.
Have I not twice convinced myself?
When I look at life, what is last of all?
Nothing.
When I arise in spirit, what is highest of all?
Nothing.
But be still, my heart!
This is your last strength that you are wasting!
Your last strength?
and you—you would storm heaven?
then where are your hundred arms, Titan, where your Felion and Ossa, your stairway to the city of the Father of the Gods, that you may climb it and throw down the God and his divine banquet and the summit of Olympus, and preach to mortals: Remain below, children of the moment!
seek not to reach these heights, for there is nothing here above.
You may well leave off watching what governs others, my heart* Your new knowledge is meant for you.
Sure enough, before you and above you there is emptiness and desolation, because there is emptiness and desolation within you.
To be sure, if you other men are richer than I am, you might just help a little.
If your garden is so full of flowers, why does not their breath rejoice me too?—If you are so filled with divinity, give me to drink of it.
At feasts no one starves, not even the poorest.
But only one holds his feast among you: that is Death.
Sorrow and Fear and Darkness are your lords.
They separate you, they drive you together with blows.
You call hunger love, and where you see nothing more, there dwell your gods.
Gods and love?
Oh, the poets are right, there is nothing so little and of so little account that man could not know rapture by it.
So I thought.
How all this came to be in me, I still do not understand.
Book Two Hyperion to Bellarmin I now live on Ajax's island, dear Salamis.
I love all of this Greece.
It wears the color of my heart.
Wherever you look, a joy lies buried.
And yet there is so much that is delightful, so much that is great, about one.
On the promontory I have built a hut of mastic branches, and planted moss and trees about it, and thyme and every kind of shrub.
There I spend my favorite hours, there I sit evening after long evening, gazing across at Attica, until finally my heart beats too strongly; then I gather up my gear, go down to the bay, and catch fish.
Or, up on my hill, I read of the ancient, magnificent sea fight that once blazed up at Salamis in wild but skillfully controlled confusion, and I rejoice in the mind that could guide and master the fierce chaos of friends and foes as a rider does his horse, and I feel deeply ashamed of my own career as a soldier.
Or I gaze out over die sea and reflect upon my life, its heights and its depths, its bliss and its sorrow, and often my past comes back to me like the sound of a lyre on which the master runs through every tone, blending discord and harmony in obedience to a hidden plan.
Today up here it is especially beautiful.
Two gracious days of rain have cooled the air and the weary earth.
The ground has turned greener, the fields are more open.
The golden wheat stands endless, mingled with joyful cornflowers, and a thousand hopeful crowns rise from the depth of the grove.
Each faint or bold line of the distance is conveyed through space; one behind the other, the mountains rise unbroken to the sun, like a flight of steps.
The whole sky is pure.
The white light is but breathed over the ether, and like a little silver cloud the shy moon goes floating across the bright day.
Hyperion to Bellarmin It is long since I have been as now I am.
As Jupiter's eagle listens for the song of the Muses, so I listen for the marvelous, unending euphony in me.
Undisturbed in mind and soul, strong and joyous and smilingly serious, I play with Bate and the Three Sisters, die holy.
Parcae.
Rill of divine youth, my whole being rejoices over itself, over all things.
Like the starry Iky, I am calm and moved.
3 I have waited long for such a holiday time, that I might write to you once again.
Now I am strong enough; now let me tell on.
In the midst of my dark days, a friend from Calaurea invited me over to visit him.
I must come to his mountains, he insisted; life there was freer than anywhere else, and there, too, amid the pinewoods and the enchanting streams, there were lemon groves and palms and lovely herbage and myrtles and the sacred grape.
He had planted a garden high in the mountains and built a house; close-set trees shaded it from behind, and cooling airs played softly about it in the burning days of summer; from it, like a bird from the top of a cedar, one looked down into the low country, over die villages and green hills and peaceful homes of the island, lying like children about the glorious mountain and drawing their nourishment from its foaming brooks.
That roused me a little, even then.
It was on a bright, blue April day that I sailed over.
The sea was unusually beautiful and pure, the air as light as in higher regions.
In the gliding bark we left the earth behind, as one leaves a delicious dish when the sacred wine is handed round.
My dark moods strove in vain against the influence of sea and air.
I surrendered myself, cared neither about myself no^others, sought for nothing, thought of nothing, let the boat rock me half asleep, and imagined that I was lying in Charon's bark.
Oh, it is sweet so to drink from the cup of oblivion.
My cheerful skipper wanted to strike up a conversation with me, but I was very monosyllabic He kept pointing to islands right and left, but I did not look long, and the next minute I was back in my own sweet dreams.
Hnally when he pointed out quiet peaks in the distance and said that we should soon reach Calaurea, I became more attentive, and my whole being opened to the marvelous power that, sweet and still and inexplicable, suddenly played upon me.
Wide-eyed, astonished and happy, I gazed out into the secrets of the distance, my heart trembled a little, my hand escaped me and hastened to grasp my skipper affectionately.—"What!"
I cried, "is that Calaurea?"
And as he turned to look at me in surprise, I was myself at a loss what to make of myself.
I greeted my friend with the greatest fondness.
My whole being was full of sweet unrest.
That very afternoon I set out to explore part of the island.
The woods and secret valleys attracted me indescribably, and the charming day lured everything out.
It was so plain to see that all living things crave more than daily bread, that die bird, too, has its festal banquet, and the beast It was enchanting to look at!
As when a mother cajolingly asks where her dearest pet has got to, and all her children come rushing to her lap and even the littlest reaches out its arms from the cradle, so every life flew and leaped and struggled out into the divine air, and beedes and swallows and doves and storks circled together in joyous confusion in its depths and heights, and the steps of all that were earthbound became flight, the horse charged over the furrows and the deer over the hedges, die fish came up from the bottom of the sea and leaped over die surface.
The motherly air affected the hearts of all, uplifted all and drew them to her.
And men came out erf their doors, and wonderfully did they feel the ethereal breeze as it lighdy moved the fine hairs over their foreheads, as it cooled the sun's ray, and happily they loosed their garments to receive it upon their chests, and breathed more sweedy, felt more gendy touched by the light, cool, soothing sea in which they lived and moved and had their being.
0 Sister of the spirit that lives in us and rules us with fiery power, holy Air!
how beautiful it is that, no matter where I wander, you accompany me, all-present, immortal one!
It was with the children that the high element played most beautifully.
One hummed happily to himself, a litde rhythmless song rose from another's lips, a shout of joy from another's open throat; one stretched, one leaped high; another strolled about, lost to the world.
And all this was the language of a single sense of well-being, all was one answer to the caresses of the ravishing breezes.
1 was filled with indescribable longing and peace.
An uncanny power ruled me.
Kindly Spirit, I said to myself, where are you calling me?
to Elysium, or where?
I went up through a wood, following purling waters as, here, they trickled down a cliff, there glided innocently over pebbles; and litde by litde the valley grew narrower and became an arcade, and the light of high noon played solitary in the still darkness—  4 Here—would that I could speak, my Bellarmin!
would that I could write to you calmly.
Speak?
Oh, I am a novice in joy, I want to speak!
Does not silence dwell in the Land of the Blessed?
Above the stars the heart forgets its needs and its language.
I have guarded it sacredly!
I have carried it within me like a palladium—the divine that appeared to me!
and if henceforth Fate lays hold of me and casts me from abyss to abyss and drowns all powers in me and all thoughts: yet shall this unique revelation outlive myself in me and shine in me and rule me, in eternal, indestructible brightness!— So did you lie poured out, sweet life, so did you look up, and arise, and stand there before me in delicate completeness, divinely calm, and with your heavenly face filled with the serene ecstasy in which I disturbed you!
Oh, he who has looked into the stillness of those eyes, he for whom those sweet lips have opened—of what else can he speak?
Peace of beauty!
divine peace!
he whose raging life, whose doubting spirit, has once been soothed by you, what else can avail him?
I cannot speak of her; but there are hours when the best and most beautiful appears as in clouds, and the heaven of crowning perfection opens before the surmise of love; in such a moment, Bellarmin, think of her being, in such a moment go down on your knees with me and think of my bliss!
but forget not that I had what you only surmise, that I saw with these eyes what appears to you only as in clouds.
That men will sometimes say they are happy!
Oh, believe me, you who speak thus, you have had no faintest inkling of what happiness is!
Not the shadow of its shadow has yet appeared to you!
O blindmen, depart, and speak not of the blue ether!
That one can become as children are, that still the golden age of innocence returns, the time of peace and freedom, that one happiness, one place of rest remains upon earth!
Does not man grow old and shrivelled, is he not like a fallen leaf that finds not its branch again and is driven here and there by the winds, until the sand buries it?
And yet his spring returns!
Weep not, when the best fades, it will soon revive!
Mourn not,   when the melody of your hearts falls silent, soon will a hand be found to tune it again!
How was it with me, then?
Was I not like a shattered lyre?
I sounded a little still, but they were tones of death.
I had sung a mournful swan song for myself!
Gladly would I have woven myself a funeral wreath, but I had only winter flowers.
And where, then, was it now—-the deathly silence, the darkness and emptiness of my life?
all that paltry mortality?
True enough, life is wretched and lonely.
We live here below like the diamond in the mine.
In vain we ask where we went astray, that we may find the way upward again.
We are like fire that sleeps in the dry branch or in the coal, and ever we struggle and seek for an end to our cramped confinement.
But they come, they make up for aeons of struggle, the moments when we are set free, when the divine shatters the prison, when the flame bursts from the wood and flies up over the ashes, ah!
when it is with us as if, its sorrows and its servitude forgotten, the unshackled spirit were returning in triumph to the halls of the Sun.
Hyperion to Bellarmin Once I was happy, Bellarmin!
Am I not so still?
Should I not be happy even if the sacred moment when first I saw her had been the last?
I have seen it once, the one thing that my soul sought, and the perfection that we put somewhere far away above the stars, that we put off until the end of time—I have felt it in its living presence.
There it was, all that is highest!
in this circle of human nature and of things, it was there!
I no longer ask where it may be; it was in the world, it can return into it, it is in the world now, only more hidden.
I no longer ask what it is; I have seen it, have known it.
O you who seek the highest and the best, whether in the depths of knowledge, in the turmoil of action, in the darkness of the past, in the labyrinth of the future, in graves or above the stars!
do you know its name?
the name of that which is one and is all?
Its name is Beauty.
4 Did you know what you were looking for?
I know it not yet, but I surmise it as from afar, the new kingdom of the new divinity, and I hasten toward it and seize upon others and take them with me, as the river the rivers to the ocean.
And you, you showed me the way!
With you I began.
They are not worth speech, the days when yet I knew you not— O Diotima, Diotima, divine being!
Hyperion to Bellarmin Let us forget that time exists and cease to reckon the days of our lives!
What are centuries compared to the moment when two beings thus divine and approach each other?
