Lauter Besinnung aber oben lebt der Aether.
Aber silbern An reinen Tagen Ist das Licht.
Als Zeichen der Liebe Veilchenblau die Erde.
Zu Geringem auch kann kommen Großer Anfang.
Alltag aber wunderbar zu lieb den Menschen Gott an hat ein Gewand.
Und Erkentnissen verberget sich sein Angesicht Und deket die Lüfte mit Kunst.
Und Luft und Zeit dekt Den Schröklichen, daß zu sehr nicht eins Ihn liebet mit Gebeten oder Die Seele.
Denn lange schon steht offen Wie Blätter, zu lernen, oder Linien und Winkel Die Natur   Poems  283 Greece Third Version O you voices of fate, you ways of the wanderer!
For amid the blue erf the school, From afar, amid the uproar of heaven Rings out like the blackbird's song The clouds* happy mood, well Tempered by the existence of God, the thunderstorm.
And calls, like looking out, for Immortality and heroes; Memories are many.
Where ringing out On it, as on the calf's hide, The earth, proceeding from devastations, temptations of the saints, For at die beginning die work is shaped, Pursues great laws, and knowledge And tenderness and the width of heaven, all wrapping, later becoming Visible, sing clouds of song.
For firmly fixed is the navel Of Earth.
For captive in banks of grass are The flames and the common Elements.
But above, all reflection, lives Aether.
But silver On pure days Is light As a sign of love Violet-blue die earth.
A great beginning can come Even to humble things.
Everyday but marvellous, for the sake of men, God has put on a garment And his face is withheld from the knowing And covers the winds with art And air and time cover The terrible one, so that not too much a man With prayers shall love him.
Or else the soul.
For long already like leaves, To learn, or like lines and angles, Nature lies open  28 Und gelber die Sonnen und die Monde, Zu Zeiten aber Wenn ausgehn will die alte Bildung Der Erde, bei Geschichten nemlich Gewordnen, muthig fechtenden, wie auf Höhen führet Die Erde Gott.
Ungemessene Schritte Begränzt er aber, aber wie Blüthen golden thun Der Seele Kräfte dann der Seele Verwandtschaften sich zusammen, Daß lieber auf Erden Die Schönheit wohnt und irgend ein Geist Gemeinschaftlicher sich zu Menschen gesellet.
Süß ists, dann unter hohen Schatten von Bäumen Und Hügeln zu wohnen, sonnig, wo der Weg ist Gepflastert zur Kirche.
Reisenden aber, wem, Aus Lebensliebe, messend immerhin, Die Füße gehorchen, blühn Schöner die Wege, wo das Land Der Frühling Wenn aus der Hefe kommt der Frühling in das Leben, Es wundert sich der Mensch, und neue Worte streben Aus Geistigkeit, die Freude kehret wieder Und festlich machen sich Gesang und Lieder.
Das Leben findet sich aus Harmonie der Zeiten, Daß immerdar den Sinn Natur und Geist geleiten, Und die Vollkommenheit ist Eines in dem Geiste, So findet vieles sich, und aus Natur das Meiste.
Mit Untertänigkeit d. 24 Mai Scardanelli.
1758.
Poems  28S And more yellow the suns and the moons, But at times When the ancient knowledge of earth is in danger Of going out, amid histories, that is, grown, come to pass And boldly fencing, as on high places God Leads on die Earth.
Unmeasured paces, though, He limits, but like blossoms golden then The faculties, affinities of the soul consort So that more willingly , Beauty dwells on earth and one or the other spirit More communally joins in human affairs.
Sweet it is then to dwell under the high shade Of trees and hills, sunny, where the road Is paved to church.
To travelers, though, To him whose feet, from love of life, Measuring all along, obey him, More beautifully blossom the roads, where the land Michael Hamburger Spring When springtime from the depth returns to life, Men are amazed, and from their minds aspire New words, and happiness once more is rife, And festive music rings from house and choir.
Life finds itself in seasonal harmonies, That ever Nature, Spirit might attend our thought, And one within our minds perfection is; So, most of all from Nature, much to itself is brought.
Your humble and obedient servant May 24th Scardanelli 1758, Michael Hamburger   Endnotes In preparing diese notes I have drawn on the commentaries of a number of scholars.
I am especially indebted to the extensive notes provided by Friedrich Beissner in his Grosse Stuttgarter Ausgabe as well as in his smaller Insel Edition (1969), prepared with Jochen Schmidt I have also made use of the notes in D. E. Satder's Frankfurter Ausgabe and the commentaries published by Middleton, Hamburger, and Sieburth in their respective editions of the poems.
The spelling of some Greek and German names varies from translator to translator.
Hyperion Hölderlin first mentions his plan to write a novel as a student in 1792 and works on various versions of die novel for die next seven years.
Schiller publishes a first fragmentary draft in his Neuer Thalia in 1794 and on his recommendation die first volume of the final version is published by Cotta in 1797.
The second volume Mows in 1799.
Other versions of the novel exist in fragmentary form, including a verse draft composed in Jena and one entided "Hyperion's Youth."
For his descriptions of Greek landscape Hölderlin most likely consulted German translations of Richard Chandler's Travels in Asia Minor and Greece and Count Choiseul-Gouffier's Voyage pittoresque de la Grace.
Hyperion has often been compared with Goethe's Sufferings of Young Werther and, though the two works exhibit a number of similar formal aspects and thematic preoccupations, the reader will find a more complex emplotment of die dialectic of desire, so central to both novels, in the work of the younger poetTTn the preface to the "Fragment of Hyperion," the shape of this dialectic is characterized as the "eccentric path" leading man from a condition of "more or less pure simplicity" to one of "more or less completed cultivation."
In the preface to the final version, the eccentric path is described as the movement toward the "resolution of dissonances in a particular character."
In the novel this movement takes place at two levels: that of die life story told by the "hermit in Greece" and that of die narration itselt That is, in Hyperion the eccentric path signifies not only the lived life of joys and sorrows, communion and conflict, in the realms of politics and 287  288  Endnotes Eros, but the work of narration itselt For the author of these letters, the elegiac procedures of anamnesis and narration prove to be as important and transformative as any other life experience.
"When I was a b o y .
.
. "
/ "Da ich ein Knabe w a r , .
. "
1797-98 (dates given for composition of poems are in large measure conjectural).
Holderlin's mythology of childhood seems to have been largely influenced by Rousseau.
This mythology is familiar from Hyperion: MThe child is wholly what it is, and that is why it is so beautiful.
The pressure of Law and Fate touches it not; only in the child is freedom.
In die child is peace; it has not yet come to be at odds with itself."
"Empedokles" 1798.
The fifth-century B.C.
poet-philosopher was the subject of Hölderlin's unfinished tragedy, "The Death of Empedocles?
which occupied him from 1797 to 1799.
Empedoclesfe suicide was for Hölderlin a powerful reminder of the dangers of the longing for unmediated contact with the sacred element.
The "queen" is an allusion to Cleopatra, who, according to Plinius, melted pearls in vinegar and drank them to win a bet with Anthony that she could consume ten million sestertia at one meal.
"SophoUes" Probably written in the summer of 1799 while working on plans for his ill- fated literary journal Iduna.
The epigram expresses the deep affinity be- tween tragedy, sacrifice, and elegy in Hölderlin's writings.
In his notes to Antigone, Hölderlin writes: "The tragic representation has as its premise .
.
.
the merging of the fully present God with m a n .
.
.
such that the infinite enthusiasm gathers itself infinitely, that i s , .
.
.
in a consciousness that cancels itself as consciousness,... and the God becomes manifest in the figure of death."
"The Root of All Evil" / "Wurzel alles Übels" 1799.
In the poem Hölderlin distances himself from the totalitarian poten- tial in philosophies and politics that overemphasize identity at the expense  Endnotes  289 of heterogeneity.
Hyperion remarks to Alabanda: "The state has always been made a hell by man's wanting to make it his heaven."
"My Possessions" / "Mein Eigentum" 1799.
Hölderlin wrote a large number of odes in classical meters, limiting himself primarily to alcaic and asdepiadic strophic forms.
This one is alcaic (translations only approximate to the original measures): Hölderlin wrote the poem a year after his painful separation from the Gontard household and at a time when he was struggling with various plans to support himself as a writer.
Hölderlin's precarious existence in a politically and economically oppressive civil society resonates here with the transcendental homelessness that was to become one of the central themes of his elegies and hymns.
As this ode already suggests, a condition of material and spiritual desolation can make one vulnerable to the self- destructive impulse to seek unmediated contact with the gods.
"Heidelberg" 1798-1800.
The ode is asdepiadic: Hölderlin was in Heidelberg on at least two occasions.
The central strophes most likely allude to his visit in 1795 after his sudden departure from Jena in a state of great emotional distress.
"The Course of Life" / "Lebenslauf" 1798-99.
Asdepiadic.
In April 1797 Hölderlin writes to his sister: "It's not a bad thing if a young man strives beyond himself; but a more mature life curves back once more to what is human and serene."
290  Endnotes «The Rtfcwer / "Der Abschied" 1798-1800.
Asdepiadic The labor of mourning performed in die poem is particularly harsh, even violent: the lily at the end of the poem—in Höld- erlin flowers are often associated with poetic language—appears to be linked to a bleeding away of desire.
"Nature and Art" / "Natur und Kunst" 1800-01.
Alcaic Saturn, the god of the golden age, was dethroned by his son Jupiter.
Hölderlin identifies Kronos (Saturn) with Chronos (time), which makes Jupiter both "the son of Kronos" (Kronion) and of time.
The relation between the gods (and what they represent) anticipates die relation between the Dionysian and the Apollinian principles in Nietzsche's Birth of Tragedy.
"Hie Poet's Vocation" / "Dichterberuf" 1800-01 (expansion of shorter poem, T o Our Great Poets" written 1798).
Alcaic.
One of the central questions of Hölderlin's mature writings concerns the task of the poet in desolate times, which are associated here with the predominance of instrumental reason in human affairs.
In the final lines the poet's unique relation to God's absence displaces the emphasis in an earlier version on the relation of mortals in general to God's proximity ("And neither honors nor weapons are / Needed, as long as die God remains near.")
It is unclear whether in the final version Hölderlin is being ironic or suggesting, radier, that the poet's vocation is precisely to discover, by way of a certain negative theology, the spiritual resources of an absent God.
"Voice of the Ffeople" / "Stimme des Volks* 1799-1800.
Alcaic.
The origin of the proverb that informs the poem, "vox populi, vox dei," is uncertain.
The city of Xanthos was twice besieged: by the Persians between 546 and 539 B.C.
and by Brutus in 42 B.C.
The ode contains the most explicit reference in all of Hölderlin's writings to a suicidal (repetition) compulsion to undo individuation, particularly at mo- ments of great danger.
Endnotes  291 "Chiron" Between 1802 and early 1804, Hölderlin revised three earlier odes and included them among the nine poems he sent to Friedrich Wilmans for publication in his Taschenbuch für das Jahr 1805.
Hölderlin referred to diese poems as Nachtgesänge (Nightsongs).
The three odes were: "Chiron," a reworking of "Der blinde Sänger" (The blind poet); "Blödigkeit," a reworking of "Dichtermut" (The poet's courage); and "Ganymed," a reworking of "Der gefesselte Strom" (The fettered river).
Chiron was die wise and just among die centaurs and, having been instructed in the arts of medicine, music, prophecy, and hunting by Apollo and Artemis, became the teacher of various Achaen heroes such as Jason and Achilles* While hunting, he was inadvertently struck by one of Heradesfc poisoned arrows.
Rather than bear the pain, Chiron agreed to give up his immortality to Prometheus, thus fulfilling die prophecy that the latter would be redeemed only if a god would die for him* Heracles kills the eagle that had fed on Prometheus' liver and tells Zeus of Chiron's desire to die for Prometheus.
The word "clouds" in die penultimate strophe may be a translation of the Greek niphos, meaning "cloud" as well as "horde" or "band" "Timidness" / "Blödigkeit" See note to "Chiron."
In the final strophe Hölderlin creates a series of puns using derivations of die verb schicken (to send).
Geschickt, the past partici-ple of schicken, can also mean skillful; the noun Geschick denotes skill as well as fete or destiny (related to Schicksat).
Schicklich connotes suitable, becoming, within the limits of propriety* "Ganymed" See note to "Chiron."
Ganymede was the legendary Trojan prince whose beauty so captivated Zeus that the god assumed the form of an eagle and carried him off to Olympus to be his cupbearer* "Menon's Lament for Diotima" / "Menons Klage um Diotima" Hölderlin's elegies, written 1799-1801, are "elegiac" in both form and content.
That is, they are poems of lament and they are written in elegiac  292  Endnotes distichs (alternating dactylic hexameters and pentameters; sometimes thought of as coupled hexameters, the second with a masculine caesura after the third beat), one of the oldest Greek verse forms, naturalized in Germany in the eighteenth century.
Hölderlin developed his conception of the theme and tone erf elegiac poetry within the framework of Schiller's notion of the genre as a subclass of sentimental poetry.
As performed by Hölderlin, the elegist's lament often takes on hymnic character: die work erf mourning a lost state of erotic or spiritual fulfillment (and thereby of renewing one's attachments to the world of the living) may open up to visionary projections erf a future state erf fulfillment and unity to be achieved, at least in part, in and through die language erf poetry.
"Bread and Wine" / "Brod und Wein99 In July, 1796, Hölderlin, Susette Gontard, and her four children arrived in Kassel as refugees from Frankfurt, which had been overrun by Napoleon's army.
Their host in Kassel was Wilhelm Heinse, a friend of the Gontard family and author of the novel Ardinghello (1787).
Both the novel and its author influenced Hölderlin's own novel Hyperion.
The first strophe was published separately by Leo von Seckendorf in his Musenalmanach für das Jahr 1807 under the title "Die Nacht" and is known to have had a powerful impact on, among others, Clemens Brentano, who cites several lines from the poem nearly verbatim in his own "Märchen von Gockel, Hinkel und Gackeleia."
The poem, which was first published in its entirety in 1894 (and at an earlier stage was called "Der Weingott"), mixes together allusions to Dionysus and to Christ.
As gods who experienced death and rebirth and whose presence is furthermore preserved in a symbolic form—in bread and wine—providing comfort in the promise of later renewal, they are par- ticularly well suited to be the patron deities of elegiac poetry.
(This mixing erf Hellenic and biblical traditions is typical of Hölderlin's later work.)
In die poem Hölderlin achieves the mythopoetic vision of history that will domi- nate the later hymns; according to this vision, the poet's vocation is to prepare his community for a new epiphany, which will bring to an ecstatic conclusion the spiritual darkness that has plagued humankind since the withdrawal of the gods at the end of the Golden Age of Greek antiquity.
To accomplish this task the poet must draw upon the salvific resources erf the present moment erf danger.
Hiebe: a river nymph.
Ismenos: river near the city erf Thebes.
Cadmus: founder erf Thebes; his daughter, Semele, was die mother of  Endnotes  293 Dionysus.
Cithaeron, a mountain near Thebes, was the site of Dionysian rites.
The Syrian: perhaps a condensation of Dionysus and Christ; both bring consolation to a nocturnal (underworld.
«Half of life" / "Hälfte des Lebens" One of the "Nightsongs?
written in late 1802 and 1803 for oilman's Taschenbuch für das Jahr 1805.
The first drafts of the poem appear to have grown out of Hölderlin's efforts to complete his first large hymnic work after Pindar, "As on a Holiday..  " "The Shelter at H a h r d r / " D e r Winkel von Hahrdt" One of the "Nightsongs."
According to a Swabian legend, in 1519 Duke Ulrich of Württemberg hid from enemy nobles in the "Ulrich Stone," a natural shelter formed by two large slabs of sandstone in the woods near Nürtigen.
"Ages of Life" / "Lebensalter" One of the "Nightsongs."
The city of Palmyra was decimated by the Romans in 273.
Hölderlin's vision of the ruins of Palmyra was perhaps influenced by the poem "Die Ruinen von Palmyra" published in the first volume of the Englische Blätter (1793) edited by Ludwig Schubart, and the description of the deserted city in the first chapter of Volney's Les Ruines, ou meditations sur les revolutions des empires (1791).
The contrast between the worlds separated in the poem by the semicolon resonates with Hölderlin's vision of die fundamental differences between Greek antiquity and modern Germany elaborated in his letter to Böhlendorff of December 4,1801 (see introduc- tion).
Sieburth's translation follows D. E. Satder's reconstruction of the poem in the Einleitung to die Frankfurter Ausgabe.
"As on a holiday.."
/ "Wie wenn am Feiertage«.." End of 1799.
The first of the late hymnic works in which Hölderlin tries to adapt die triadic construction of die Pindaric ode—die progression from strophe to antistrophe to epode—to the historical and spiritual experience  294  Endnotes of Hesperidean man.
In this first and, as it turned out, fragmentary attempt, Hölderlin also tries to imitate Pindar's patterns of metrical responsion.
In the first prose drafts of the poem Hölderlin draws upon his translation of the prologue of Euripidesfe Bacchae, the first lines of which refer to die mythic birth of Dionysus from die union of Zeus and Semele.
"At the Source of the Danube" / "Am Quell der Donau" 1801.
Hölderlin's major hymns were written for the most part between 1801 and 1803.
Hölderlin characterized the tone of his hymnic work as the "high and pure jubilation of patriotic songs'9 (das hohe und reine Frohlocken vaterländischer Gesänge) in contrast to die "tired flight" of love songs that were more typical of the period.
Some commentators have suggested that "As on a holiday...." remained a fragment (and should not even be included among the vaterländische Gesänge) because Hölderlin had not yet worked through to this more public poetic attitude and voice.
The triadic structure of "At the Source of the Danube" would be completed by two missing strophes, which, judging from prose drafts, would have con- tained an invocation to Mother Asia: (12,12), 15; 12,12,16; 12,12,14.
The late hymns make frequent reference to geography (for example, die course of rivers or the placement of mountains), to illustrate die westerly migration of a world-historical spirit from Asia, to Greece and Rome, and finally to Northern Europe.
The Danube, which flows from Swabia to die Black Sea, may thereby become the locus of a mediation between the primordial site of an inspired humanity and a modernity awaiting spiritual renewal.
Parnassus: mountain above Delphi, sacred to Apollo and the muses.
Cithaeron: mountain near Thebes; site of Dionysian rites« Capitol: site of the temple of Jupiter in Rome.
Ionia: region along the western coast of Asia Minor.
Isthmus: Isthmus at Corinth, site of the Isthmian Games.
Cephissus: river near Athens.
Taygetus: mountain range overlooking Sparta.
Caucasus: mountain range marking for Hölderlin die boundary between Asia and Europe.
"The Migration" / "Die Wanderung" 1801.
The boundaries of Swabia evoked in the first strophe reflect the dimensions of die medieval duchy of Swabia under die Hohenstaufer.
Hie  Endnotes  295 thic union of the German tribe with the "children of die sun" may allude a wave of Swabian emigration toward die lower basin of die Danube in 70.
Lombardy: region of northern Italy bordering on Switzerland Neckar: major river in Swabia.
They called this sea Hospitable: previously referred to as "desolate," die reeks called die Black Sea "hospitable" after colonization.
Cayster: river in Ionia.
Taygetos: mountain range overlooking Sparta.
Hymettos: mountain range southeast of Athens famous for its honey and larble.
Tmolos: the river Paktolos in Asia Minor, known for its gold, runs down rom Mount Tmolos.
Land of Homer: Ionia.
The young peaches: the peach was introduced to Europe from Asia siinor.
Thetis: sea nymph, mother of Achilles.
Ida: mountain range south of Troy.
Graces of Greece: die Charites: Euphrosyne ("joy"), Aglaia ("brilliance"), and Thalia ("bloom").
"Germanien" 1801.
The flight of the eagle follows much the same path of the "voice that moulds and makes human" in "At the Source of the Danube."
The "storm, threatening death" is perhaps an allusion to die Napoleonic wars.
The "lesser ones" of the fifth strophe might be an allusion to the Romans defeated by Germanic warriors in the Teutoburger Wald.
The strophe as a whole appears to have been influenced by Tacitus's Germania.
"Der Rhein" 1801.
Isaac von Sinclair, to whom the poem is dedicated, was one of Hölderlin's closest and most loyal friends.
His "Jacobin" politics led to his expulsion from the university of Jena in 1795 and to his arrest and brief incarceration in 1805 (see chronology).
In a marginal note on one of the manuscripts of the poem, Hölderlin characterized the structure of the hymn as follows (in Christopher Middleton's translation): "The law of this poem [dieses Gesanges] is that the first two parts are formally opposed as pro- gression and regression, but are alike in subject matter; the two succeeding  296  Endnotes parts are formally alike but are opposed as regards subjea matter; the last part, however, balances everything out with a continuous metaphor."
Höld- erlin thus grouped the fifteen strophes of the hymn into five sets of three strophes each (triad).
The terms "progression" and "regression** may refer to die movement of thought and voice through the three major poetic tonalities as conceived by Hölderlin: naive, heroic, ideal.
Each tonality gives voice to a different position, attitude, and existential mood vis-ä-vis the heroic destiny that is the central theme of the poem.
Morea: the Peloponnesus (southern part of Greece).
Ticino, Rhodanus: rivers that rise near the source of the Rhine in the Swiss Alps.
Toward Asia: the Rhine flows eastward from its source before turning northward in the Graubünden mountains.
He rends the snakes: allusion to Heracles struggling with the snakes placed in his cradle by Hera.
Rousseau: Hölderlin wrote an (unfinished) ode to Rousseau around the turn of the century.
He was important to Hölderlin as the first great modern psychologist of alienation and as prophet of revolutionary change.
Lake Bienne: Rousseau took refuge on the Beterinsel in this lake in 1765.
One wise man: an allusion to Socrates at the symposium.
In the steel blade: perhaps an allusion to Sinclair's revolutionary politics.
"Celebration of Peace" / "Friedeiisfeier" 1801-02.
The final version of this hymn was discovered in 1954 in a private collection in London.
The twelve strophes are divisible into four triads (Hölderlin left extra spaces after every third strophe to mark the divisions).
The first drafts were composed in the euphoria following the Treaty of Lun6ville in February 1801 (see chronology).
Since its publication, com- mentators have suggested a number of possible identities of the prince of the feast day: the genius of the people; Napoleon; Christ; the God of Peace; the World Spirit; Helios; Dionysus; Heracles.
Still others have argued that Hölderlin has been quite careful to suspend the question of identity in the hymn.
«The Only One" / «Der Einzige" 1802; further versions 1803.
The fragmentary hymn is one of Hölderlin's ambivalent attempts to integrate Christ into the lineage of Greek gods as  Endnotes  297 part of his effort to establish a proper measure of distance (and proximity) to him without compromising his uniqueness.
Elis: region in die western Peloponnesus where Olympia lies; site of the panhellenic games« Smyrna... Ephesos: Greek settlements in Ionia, on the western coast of Asia Minor.
Euios: cult name of Dionysus.
"Batrnos" 1802.
In 1802, the Landgrave Friedrich erf Hessen-Homburg, a critic erf the "false freedom and Jacobinism" he saw as the legacy of the Enlightenment and the French Revolution, commissioned Klopstock to write a poem reaffirming traditional biblical values.
When Klopstock was unable to oblige him, Hölderlin, who met the Landgrave in Regensburg in October 1802, took on the task.
Sinclair handed the poem with Hölderlin's dedication to die Landgrave on February 6,1803, on die occasion of the latter's fifty-fifth birthday.
Patmos is die island in the Sporades (Aegean archipelago) where St. John die Divine is said to have written the Book of Revelations.
Hölderlin shared die common assumption that this John was identical with the apostle John.
A later version merges John the Baptist with this composite figure.
The poem is perhaps Hölderlin's most powerful evocation of die primal scene erf dispersion and fragmentation that marks die advent of modernity for the poet, which, he suggests, is a time when the divine is only available in the form of signs to be recollected and interpreted Give us innocent water: the line recalls Hölderlin's translation (1799) erf Leander's letter to Hero—i.e., from antiquity's most famous swimmer to his beloved—from the eighteenth epistle in Ovid's Heroides.
Tmolus, Taurus, Messogis: mountains in Asia Minor, now Turkey.
Bearer of thunder; mystery of die vine: here as in "Bread and Wine," Hölderlin sometimes mingles die attributes of Christ and Dionysus.
The evening had come: die world-historical night brought on by Christ's absence.
The loved one's shadow: perhaps an allusion to Christ's appearance to die disciples on the way to Rmmaus (Luke 24:13-17.).
In a later version this shadow is compared to a plague.
He sent them / The Spirit: c£ Acts 2 : 1 - 4 .
To have done so later: diese difficult lines are rendered by Sieburth as follows: "Far worse, had it / Happened later, brutally tearing men / From their work."
Beissner suggests die following reading: Later, Ufe would not  298  Endnotes have been good, would have been the mere work of men (and moreover a sign of God's infidelity)» had Christ not sent the disciples the Spirit that consoles them during the period of darkness before Parousia.
God disperses whatever lives: in a later version this is changed to "God destroys whatever lives."
The sower's cast: a condensation of two New Testament parables: c£ Matthew 3:11-12; Mark 4: 3-9 and 11-20, To copy God's own image: the warning against graven images contained in these difficult lines is made more explicit in Sieburth's translation: "I once saw the lords of heaven / Visibly furious that I wanted to be something / Rather than learn."
How much more you: The Landgrave Friedrich For known / To him are all his works: c£ Acts 15:18.
"Fatmos" [Fragments of the Later Version] 1803.
From Jordan: c£ Matthew 4: 23-25; Luke: 4:14-37; John 4: 43-54.
A little while I shall stay: c£ John, 13: 33.
Small children killed: c£ Matthew 2:16-18.
The Baptist's head: c£ Matthew 14: 8-11; Mark 6: 25-28.
Feleus: king of the Myrmidons at Phthia in Thessaly and father of Achilles.
He was shipwrecked on the island of Kos, near Fatmos.
The nobles: the Crusaders.
Heinrich: the German Emperör Heinrich IV (1056-1106); under pres- sure from the German princes, he did penance at Canossa in 1077 to absolve himself from excommunication by Pope Gregory VII.
Dragons' teeth: allusion to Cadmus's sowing erf armed soldiers from the teeth of a dragon (c£ Ovid, The Metamorphoses, 3,99-130); with five erf these soldiers Cadmus built the city of Thebes.
"Remembrance" / "Andenken" 1803 (perhaps as late as 1805).
One of the first poems to incorporate details of the French landscape Hölderlin witnessed during his brief employment as a private tutor in Bordeaux (see chronology).
The northeasterly: the wind that blows from Germany toward Bordeaux (and to the West Indies).
Garonne: river that flows from the southeast into the Atlantic near Bordeaux after joining with the Dordogne, which flows from east to west.
Endnotes  299 But a noble pair: Hölderlin's use of the conjunction aber here and throughout the late hymns reflects a tendency in the later hymns toward parataxis.
Bellarmin: the addressee of Hyperion's letters in Hölderlin's epistolary novel.
To the Indies: the manuscript version reads Indien, while the printed text reads Indiern.
But poets establish what remains: Middleton renders the last line: "But poets alone ordain what abides."
"Derfeter" 1803 (perhaps as late as 1805).
Ister is the ancient Greek name for the Danube.
Indus: river associated with the sacred origins of culture.
Alpheus: river that runs by Olympia.
What is fitting: see note to the ode "Timidness."
Hercules (Heracles): according to Pindar's Third Olympian (translated by Hölderlin)» Hercules brought back olive trees from die source of the Danube to provide shade for the Olympic fields.
To travel backwards: for Hölderlin the Danube mediates between the ancient origins of culture in the east and Hesperidean modernity.
The Rhine, has gone away / Sideways: allusion to the easterly course of the river at its source.
Hertha: according to Tacitus, this fertility goddess was the Mother Earth of die ancient Germans.
"Mnemosyne" 1803 (perhaps as late as 1805).
The Sieburth translation published here follows D. E. Satder's reconstruction of the poem in the Einleitung to the Frankfurter Ausgabe.
The strophe that Beissner presents as the first strophe of a "third version" of the poem (replacing "A sign we a r e .
.
.
. "
is published here separately as the fragment "The fruits are ripe.
  " According to Beissner, Hölderlin's work on the poem was contemporary with his translations from Sophocles^ Ajax.
Mnemosyne is the Greek goddess of memory and mother of the Muses.
Eleutherai: city on the slopes of Mt.
Kithairon; according to Hesiod, Mnemosyne reigned over the hills of Eleuther.
Cut / Her lock of hair: in Greek mythology this is to mark one for death.
300  Endnotes Mourning is in error: this last line has been the subject of debate among scholars.
If one reads fehlet to signify a lack rather than error and gleich to mean "soon," one might read the line as: "For him mourning will soon pass/9 that his, for him who gathers himself and lets go of an obsessive, melancholic mode of memory.
"The fruits are ripe..." / "Reif s i n d .
.
. "
The dates of composition of the five drafts of hymns published here are generally taken to be 1801 to 1806.
Before Satder's reconstruction of "Mnemosyne" most scholars accepted Beissner's reading of "Reif sind*.. " as the first strophe of a third version of that hymn.
Satder includes the fragment as part of a larger collection of fragments he has entided "Ap- rioritat des Individuellen."
According to Paracelsus, "The ripening of fruit is natural cookery: therefore what nature has in her, she cooks, and when it is cooked, then nature is whole" (Hamburger's translation).
"When the s a p .
.
. "
/ "Wenn nemlich der Rebe S a f e .
.
. "
A sort of miniature of the dialectic of light and shade—the Greek fires from heaven and Hesperidean sobriety—which is a central motif in all the late hymns.
"Do you t h i n k .
.
. "
/ "Meinest du es solle gehen   " On September 28,1803, in a letter to his publisher regarding his transla- tions of Sophocles, Hölderlin writes: "I hope to bring Greek art, which is foreign to us, more to life .
.
.
by highlighting the Oriental quality [das Orientalische] which they denied."
What is meant here is the passionate, "aorgic" excess that, as Hölderlin writes in his first letter to Bohlendorffj was innate to the Greeks (see chronology).
"We set out from the abyss.
 . "
/ "Vom Abgrund nemlich.
.
" Much of the imagery derives from Hölderlin's sojourn in Bordeaux.
It would appear that Frankfurt, the site of Hölderlin's love affair with Susette Gontard, is being equated with Delphi, which the Greeks thought to be the naval of die earth.
