The innocent being!
not yet did she know the power and richness of her heart, and sweedy terrified by the wealth within her, she buried it in die depths of her breast—and when now, with oh!
what  6 sacred ingenuousness, she confessed, confessed with tears, that she loved too much, and took leave of all that she had until then cradled against her heart, and cried: "I have become unfaithful to May and summer and autumn, and heed not day and night as once I did, belong no more to Heaven and Earth, belong but to one, to one; but the bloom of May and the flame of summer and the ripeness of autumn, the brightness of day and the solemnity of night, and Earth and Heaven are united for me in that one!
so do I love!"
and when now, in utter content of heart she looked at me, when, in brave, holy joy she took me into her beautiful arms and kissed my forehead and my mouth, ha!
when that divine head, dying in bliss, sank down against my bared throat, and the sweet lips rested on my beating breast and her lovely breath touched my soul—O Bellarmin!
my senses fail me, and my spirit flees.
I see, I see how it must end.
The rudder has dropped into the tide and the ship, like a child caught by the feet, is seized and flung against the cliffs.
Hyperion to Bellarmin Life has great hours.
We gaze up at them as at the colossal figures of the Future and of Antiquity; we fight a glorious fight with them, and if we hold our own against them, they become like sisters and never forsake us.
Once we were sitting together on our mountain, on a stone of the city that anciently stood on this island; we were talking together of how the lion Demosthenes found his end here, how by a sacred, self- sought death, he here made his way out of Macedonian chains and daggers to freedom.—"That glorious spirit departed from the world with a jest," cried one.
"Why not?"
I said; "there was nothing left for him here; Athens had become Alexander's whore, and the world was being hounded to death like a deer by the great huntsman."
"O Athens!"
cried Diotima; "I have more than once mourned when I looked out and the phantom of the Olympieion rose before me from the blue twilight!"
"How long a crossing is it?"
I asked.
"A day's journey, more or less," answered Diotima.
"A day's journey!"
I cried, aand I have not yet been there?
We must go across together at once."
"Indeed yes!"
cried Diotima; "we shall have a calm sea tomorrow, and everything is still in its time of greenness and ripeness.
"The eternal sun and the life of die immortal earth are essential for such a pilgrimage."
"Tomorrow, then!"
I cried, and our friends assented.
We started early, the roosters were still crowing as we passed out of the roadstead.
The world shone fresh and bright, and so did we.
In our hearts was the golden peace of youth.
The life in us was like the life of a newborn ocean island, with its first spring just beginning.
Under Diotima's influence, my soul had long since atöineimore equipoise; today I felt this with threefold clarity, and my dispersed and roving powers were all concentrated in one golden mean.
We talked of the excellence of the ancient Athenians, of whence it arose and in what it consisted.
One said that the climate had produced it; another: art and philosophy; a third: religion and form of government.
"Athenian art and religions, and philosophy and form of government," said I, "are flowers and fruits of the tree, not soil and root.
You take the effects for the cause.
"But let him who tells me that the climate produced all this consider that we still live in it ourselves.
"Left more undisturbed in every way, freer from ruthless interference than any other people on earth^sq did then Athenian people grow to mänEood.
No conqueror weakens them, no success in war intoxicates them, no foreign religion stupefies them, no rash wisdom urges them to premature ripeness.
Left to itself, like the forming diamond—such is their childhood.
Almost nothing is heard of them until the rimes of Pisistratus and Hipparchus.
They took but a small part in the Trojan War, which, as in a hothouse, too early heated and stimulated most of the Greek peoples.—An extraordinary destiny never begets men.
The sons of such a mother are great, are giants, but they never become beings of beauty or, what is the same thing, men—or else not until late, when the opposing forces in them battle too savagely not to make peace at last.
"In exuberant vigor Lacedaemon rushes ahead of the Athenians,  6 and for that very reason would have dissipated and dissolved itself, had not Lycurgus come and, for all its overweening nature, held it together by his discipline.
From then on everything in the Spartan was an achievement, every excellence was laboriously conquered, bought at the price of conscious effort, and if in a certain sense we can speak of Spartan simplicity, still the true simplicity of the child was completely lacking in them.
The Lacedaemonians too early transgressed the order of instinct, they degenerated too soon, hence discipline, too, had likewise to begin for them too early; for every discipline and art begins top early when man's nature has not yet become mature.
Nature must have developed~tö~perfection iirthe human child before he goes to school, so that the image of childhood may show him the way back from school to the perfection of Nature.
"The Spartans forever remained a fragment; for he who was not once a perfect child is hard put to it to become a perfect man.— "It is true, too, that Heaven and Earth did their part for the Athenians, as for all the Greeks, gave them neither poverty nor superfluity.
The rays of Heaven did not fall on them like a rain of fire.
Earth did not pamper them, intoxicate them, with caresses and excessive gifts, as the foolish Mother sometimes does elsewhere.
"To add to this, came Theseus9 prodigious act, his voluntary limitation of his own royal power.
"Oh!
such a seed sown in the hearts of the people cannot but bring forth an ocean of golden ears, and even at this late hour it still visibly operates and flourishes among *he Athenians.
"*I say it again!
That the Athenians grew up so free from every kind of ruthless interference, on so moderate a diet—it was this that made them so outstandingly excellent, and only this could do it!
"Leave the human being undisturbed from the cradle on!
do not force him out of the close-wrapped bud of his being, the small house of his childhood!
Do not do too little, lest he make shift without you, and hence distinguish you from himself; do not do too much, lest he feel your power or his own, and hence distinguish you from himself; in short, let him not learn until late that there are men, that there is something else outside of himself, for only thus will he become a man.
But man is a god as soon as he is man.
And once he is a god, he is beaut3uE*~~   "How strange!"
cried one of our friends.
"%u have never yet spoken so deeply from my soul," cried Diotima.
"It comes to me from you," I answered.
"It is so that the Athenian was a man," I continued; "and so he could not but become a man.
Beautiful he came from Nature's hands, beautiful in body and soul, as the saying goes.
"The first child of human, of divine Beauty is art.
In art the divine man rejuvenates, and' repeats himself, He wants to feel himself, therefore he sets his Beauty over against himself, Thus did man give himself his gods.
For in the beginning man and his gods 3#ere-0ne, when, unknown to itself, eternal Beauty was.
I speak mysteries, but they exist.— "The first child of divine Beauty is art.
Thus it was among the Athenians.
"Beauty's second daughter is religion.
Religion is love of Beauty.
The wise man loves Beauty herself, eternal, all-embräcing Beauty; the people love her children, the gods, who appear to them in multifarious forms.
So it was, too, among the Athenians.
And without such a love of Beauty, without such a religion, every sj&£_kii dry skeleton without life and spirit, all thought and action is a tree without a top, a columnwhose crown has been cut oft "That this was indeed the case among the Greeks, and especially the Athenians, that their art and their religion were the true children of eternal Beauty—perfect human nature—and could only spring from perfect human nature, is clearly apparent if we will but look with unprejudiced eyes at the productions of their sacred art and at the religion with which they loved and honored them.
"Shortcomings and false steps are to be found everywhere, and hence here too.
But it is certain that, even so, in most of the productions of their art we find man in his maturity.
Here there is neither the pettiness nor the colossality erf the Egyptians and the Goths, here there is human intelligence and human proportions.
They run less than otRerpeoples to the extremes of the metaphysical ^andthe physical.
Their gods remain more nearly in the golden mean of humanity than others.
"And even as the productions erf their art were, so was their love.
Not too servile, and not too familiar!—  6 "This beauty of mind and spirit in the Athenians inevitably produced die indispensable sense of freedom.
"'The Egyptian impassively bears the despotism of arbitrary power, the son of the North unprotestingly bears the despotism erf law, injustice in the form erf codes of justice; for the Egyptian is born from die womb with an urge to do homage, to idolatrize; in the North, men believe too litde in the pure, free ilife of Nature not to cling superstitiously to legality.
f "The Athenian cannot tolerate arbitrary power, because his divine nature refuses to be intruded upon, he cannot tolerate legality everywhere because he does not need it everywhere.
Draco is not for him.
He insists on being treated gently, and he is right to do so."
"Well and good!"
someone interrupted me; "I understand this, but I do not see how this poetic and religious people also comes to be a philosophical people."
"The fact is," I answered, "that without poetry they would never have been a philosophical people!"
"What has philosophy," he answered, "what has the cold sublimity of philosophical knowledge, to do with poetry?"
"Poetry," I answered, confident of my argument, "is the beginning and the end of philosophical knowledge.
Like Minerva from the head of Jupiter, philosophy springs from the poetry of an eternal, divine state of being.
And so in philosophy, too, the irreconcilable finally converges again in the mysterious spring of poetry."
"What a paradoxical man!"
cried Diotima; "yet I understand him.
But you two digress.
We are talking of Athens."
"The man," I resumed, "who has not at least once in his life felt full, pure beauty in himself, when the powers of his being merged like the colors in the rainbow, who has never felt the profound harmony that arises among all things only in hours of exaltation— that man will not even be a philosophical sceptic, his mind is not even capable of tearing down, let alone of building up.
Far, believe me, die sceptic finds contradiction and imperfection in all thatjs jhoiy^t^becaus^ harmony of perfect beauty, which is never thought.
The dry bread that human reason well-meaningly offers him, he disdains only because he is secredy feasting at die table of the gods."
"Visionary!"
cried Diotima.
"So that is why you, too, were a sceptic But the Athenians!"
"1 am close upon them," I said.
"The great saying, the €v Stct<p€pov count) (the one differentiated in itself) of Heraclitus, could be found only by a Greek, for it is the very being of Beauty, and before that was found there was no philosophy "Now classification became possible, for the whole was there.
The flower had ripened; now it could be dissected.
"The moment of beauty was now well known to men, it was there in life and thought, the infinitely one existed.
"It could be analyzed, taken apart in men's minds, it could be reconstituted from its components, and so the being of the highest and the best could be increasingly known, and the knowledge of it be set up as the law in all the multifarious realms of the spirit.
"Do you see now why the Athenians in particular could not but be a philosophical people too?
"Not so the Egyptian.
He who does not live loving Heaven and Earth and loved by them in equal measure, he who does not live at one in this sense with the element in which he has his being, is by his very nature not so at one with himself as a Greek, at least he does not experience eternal Beauty as easily as a Greek does.
"Like a grandiose despot, the East in its power and splendor casts its inhabitants to the ground and, before man has learned to walk, he is forced to kneel, before he has learned to speak, he is forced to pray; before his heart has attained an equipoise it is forced to bow, before his spirit is strong enough to bear flowers and fruit, Fate and Nature drains all his strength through torrid heat.
The Egyptian is devoted before he is a whole, hence he knows nothing of the whole, nothing of Beauty, and what he calls the highest is a veiled power, an awesome enigma; the dumb, dark Isis is his first and last, an empty infinity, and out of that nothing reasonable has ever come.
Even the most sublime nothingness gives birth to nothingness.
"The North, on the contrary, too early turns its nurslings in upon ' themselves, and if the spirit of the fiery Egyptian hurries forth too eagerly to journey through the world, in the North the spirit begins to return into itself even before it is ready to travel.
"In the North one must be judicious before one's capacity for  6 feeling has fully developed, one thinks oneself guilty of everything even before ingenuousness has achieved its beautiful end: one must be reasonable, must become a conscious intelligence befoa^neusji^ Tnan, Be a shrewd majiJfeefore one is a child; the oneness of the whole m ^ , Beauty is not allowed to thrive and ripen in him before he cultivates and develops himselt Pure intellect, pure reason "aFeT always the kings of the North.
^But pure intellect has never produced anything intelligent, nor^ pure reason anything reasonable.
( "*" , "Without beauty of spirit, intellect is like a willing journeyman who constructs the fence out of rough timber as it has been sketched out for him and nails the sawn and planed posts together for the garden that his master intends to plant.
The entire business of intellect is makeshift.
By its ability to sort out, it saves us from folly, from injustice; but to be safe from folly and injustice is, after all, not the highest level of human excellence.
> "Reason without beauty of spirit and heart is like an overseer whom the master of the house has set over the servants; he knows as little as they do what will come of all their endless toil, he only shouts: "Get busy,9 and is almost sorry to find the work being accomplished, for in the end he would have nothing more to oversee, and his part would be played.
"Mere intellect produces no phüosQphjÜPX philosophy is more than the limited perception of whaus.
^ ^Mere reason produces no philosophy, for philosophy is more than the blind demand for ever greater progress in the combination and differentiation of some particular material.
"But once the light of the divine ev Stoupepov eavnp, which is struggling reason's ideal of Beauty, shines out, it does not demand blindly, it knows why and to what end it demands.
"If the sun of the Beautiful shines for intellect at its work, as a May day shines into the artist's workshop» it does not go running out and leave its work of makeshift unfinished, though it thinks fondly of the holiday when it will rove abroad in the rejuvenating light of spring."
Thus far had I discoursed, when we landed on the shores of Attica.
Ancient Athens was now too much in our minds for us to engage   in anything like an orderly conversation, and I now felt surprised myself at die sort of things I had been saying.
"How did I ever come," I cried, "to be on the arid mountain peak on which you saw me just now?"
"It is ever thus," Diotima answered, "when we feel at our best.
Exuberant strength seeks something to do.
Young lambs butt their heads together when they are sated with their mother's milk."
We made our way to the summit of Lycabettus, and, though pressed for time, we stopped now and again wrapped in thought, preparing ourselves for wonders to come.
It is beautiful that man finds it so hard to convince himself of the death of what he loves, probably no one has ever visited a friend's grave without some faint hope of really finding his friend there.
The beautiful phantom of ancient Athens took possession of me like the figure of a mother returning from the realm of the dead.
"O Parthenon!"
I cried, "pride of the world!
Neptune's kingdom lies at thy feet like a subjugated lion, and around you the other temples cluster like children, and the eloquent Agora and the Grove of Academe—" "Can you thus transport yourself to ancient times?"
asked Diotima.
"Remind me not of time!"
I answered; "it was a divine life and in it man was the center of Nature.
Spring, when it blossomed about Athens, was like a modest flower on a maiden's bosom; the sun rose red with shame before the glories of earth.
"The marble cliffs of Hymettus and Bentelicus leaped from their slumbering cradle like children from their mother's lap, and attained form and life under the loving hands of Athenians.
"Nature bestowed honey and the most beautiful violets and myrtles and olives.
"Nature was a priestess and man her god, and all life in her and her every form and sound were but a single rapt echo of that glorious one to whom she belonged.
"Him did she celebrate, to him only did she sacrifice.
"And he was worthy of it, whether he sat fondly in the sacred workshop clasping the knees of the divine image that he had fashioned, or lay at ease among his listening students on Sunium's green promontory, whiling away the time with high thoughts, or ran in the  7 Stadium, or, from the orator's tribune, sent rain and sunshine and thunder and golden clouds, like the Storm God—" "Oh, look!"
Diotima suddenly cried to me.
I looked, and could have fainted, so mighty was the spectacle.
Like an immense shipwreck, when the gales have been hushed and the sailors have fled and the corpse of the shattered fleet lies on the sandbank unrecognizable, so before us lay Athens, and the jorsaken pillars stood before us like bare treetrunks of a wood that at evening was still green and, the same night, went up in flames.
"Here," said Diotima, "one learns to accept one's own fate in silence, be it good or bad."
"Here," I continued, "one learns to accept all things in silence.
HaS the reapers who mowed this grainfield enriched their barns with its stalks, nothing would have been lost, and IshoülcTTie content to stand here as a gleaner—but who was the winner?"
"The whole of Europe," answered one of our friends.
"Oh, yes!"
I cried, "they have dragged away the columns and statues and sold them to one another, they have put no small price on those noble forms—for their rarity, as one prizes parrots and monkeys."
"Say not so," the same man answered; "if it is indeed true that the spirit of all beauty is not among them, it is because it could not be carried away, could not be bought."
"Yes!"
I cried, "yes!
That spirit had perished even before the destroyers descended on Attica.
Not until houses and temples have been deserted do the wild beasts dare to venture into gateways and streets."
"For him who possesses that spirit," said Diotima consolingly, ^Athens still stands like a blossomingTruit tree.
The artist can easily restore the torso for hiniselfc" The next morning we set out early, saw the ruins of the Parthenon, the site of the ancient Theater of Dionysus, the Temple of Theseus, the sixteen still-standing pillars of the divine Olympieion; but what struck me most was the ancient gate that in times past afforded passage from the old city to the new, where once a thousand beautiful men and women must have greeted each other in a single day.
Now the gate gives passage to neither the old nor the new city, it stands there silent and empty, like a dried up fountain from whose conduits clear, cool water once poured with a welcoming splash.
"Ah!"
said I as we walked about, "Fate makes brave sport here, throwing down temples and giving their shattered stones to children to play with, turning disfigured gods into benches before peasants' huts, and tombs into resting places for pasturing cattle; such prodigality is more royal than Cleopatra's whim of drinking dissolved pearl—but alas for all that beauty and greatness!"
"Dear Hyperion P cried Diotima, "it is time for you to go from here; you are pale, your eyes are tired, and you seek in vain to sustain yourself with new thoughts.
Come out where it is green!
out among the colors of life!
That will do you good."
j We went out into the nearby gardens.
The others, having fallen into talk with two English scholars who were reaping a harvest from the antiquities of Athens, were not to be budged.
I was glad to leave them.
My whole being revived when I found myself alone with Diotima again; she had fought a magnificent fight against the sacred chaos of Athens.
As the lyre of Urania above the discordant elements, so Diotima's quiet thoughts ruled above the ruins.
As the moon out of a tenuous cloudbank, so her spirit rose out of her beautiful sorrow; the divine maiden stood there in her grief like the flower that breathes forth its loveliest perfume in die dark of night.
We walked on and on, and at last had not walked in vain.
O you groves of Angele, where the olive tree and the cypress, whispering together, cool each other with pleasant shade, where the golden fruit of the lemon tree glimmers from among dark leaves, where the swelling grape grows luxuriantly on the stake, and the ripe bitter-orange lies by the wayside like a smiling foundling!
you sweet-scented, hidden paths, you peaceful seats, where the reflection of the myrtle smiles out of die spring!
never shall I forget you.
Diotima and I walked about for a while under the glorious trees, until we came upon a bright open expanse.
Here we sat down.
There was a blissful silence between us.JMy spirit fluttered about the maiden's divine form like a butterfly about a flower, and my wholeBeing was ea&ed and brought to harmony in the joy of inspiring contemplation.
aAre you so soon comforted, confused one?"
said Diotima.
"Yes, yes, I am!"
I answered.
"What I thought was lost, I have; what I pined for as if it had vanished from the world, is here before me.
No, Diotima!
the spring of eternal Beauty has not yet dried up.
7 "I have said it to you before: I need gods and men no longer.
I know that Heaven is desolate, depopulated, and that Earth, which once overflowed with beautiful human life, is become almost like an anthill.
But there is still a place where the old Heaven and the old earth smile for me.
For the gods of Heaven and the godlike men of the Earth—I forget them all in you.
"What care I for the shipwreck of the world; I know nothing but my blessed island."
"There is a time for love," said Diotima with gentle seriousness, "as there is a time to live in the happy cradle.
But life itself drives us forth.
"Hyperion!
"—here she ardently grasped my hand, and her voice rose grandly—"Hyperion!
I think you are born for higher things.
Do not misjudge yourself!
it was lack of material that held you bade.
Things went too slowly.
That cast you down.
Like young fencers, you attacked too soon, before your aim was certain and your hand skilled; and because, as was bound to happen, you took more thrusts than you gave, you became timid and doubted yourself and everything else; for you are as sensitive as you are impetuous.
But that has lost you nothing.
Had your heart and your capacity for action matured so early, your spirit would not be what it is; you would not be the thinking man, would not be the suffering, turbulent man.
Believe me, you would neverhave known the equipoise of beautiful humanity so purely if you had not lost it so completely* Your hearfhäs at last foun<Tpeace.
I believe it.
I understand it.
But do you truly think that you have reached the end?
Do you mean to shut yourself up in the heaven of your love, and let the world, which needs you, wither and grow cold before you?
You must shoot down like the beam of light, you must descend like the all-refreshing rain, into the land of mortar men, you must illuminate like Apollo, shake and animate like Jupiter, or you are not worthy of your heaven.
1 beg you: go back into Athens once again, and look not only at the ruins but also at the men who walk among them, the wild Albanians and the other good-hearted, childlike Greeks, who console themselves with a merry dance and a pious tale for the infamous oppression that weighs upon them—can you say, 'I am ashamed to work with this material?'
I think it can still be fashioned.
Can you turn your heart from those who are in need?
They are not evil, they have done you no harm!"
"What can I do for them?"
I cried.
"Give them what you have within you," answered Diotima, "give—" "Not another word, noble soul!"
I cried, "else you will bend me, else it will be as if you had brought me to it by force— "They will not be happier, but nobler—no!
they will be happier too.
They must arise, they must come forth, like young mountains out of the ocean when their underground fire drives them.
"It is true that I stand alone, and appear among them without a name.
But cannot one alone, if he is a man, do more than hundreds who are but fragments of men?
"Sacred Nature, thouart the same within me and without.
It cannot be so hard to unite what is outside of me and the divine within me.
If the bee can make her little kingdom flourish, why should not I be able to plant and cultivate what is needful?
"What!
the Arabian merchant sowed his Koran abroad, and a people of scholars grew up for him like an endless forest, and shall the field not thrive to which ancient truth returns in new, living youth?
"All shall be changed!
From the root of humanity the new world shall spring!
A new divinity shall rule over them, a new future brighten before them.
"In the workshop» in houses, in gatherings, in temples—there will be a change everywhere!
"But I must still go away and learn.
I am an artist, and I am unskilled.
I fashion in thought, but I do not yet know how to direct my hand—" "You shall go to Italy," said Diotima, "to Germany, Krance—how many years do you need?
three?
four?—I think three are enough; you are not the phlegmatic sort, and you seek only what is noblest and most beautiful—" "And then?"
"You will be the teacher of our people, you will be a great man, I hope.
And when then, as now, I embrace you, I shall dream, as if I were a part of a glorious man, I shall rejoice, as if you had given me half of your immortality, even as Castor did to Pollux, oh!
I shall be a proud girl, Hyperion!"
I remained silent for a while.
I was filled with inexpressible joy.
"Is it possible that there is content between the decision and the  7 act, is there rest before the victory?"
"It is the rest of the hero," said Diotima, "there are decisions that, like the words of gods, are at once command and fulfillment, and such is yours."
We returned, as after our first embrace.
Everything had become strange and new for us.
Now I stood above the ruins of Athens like the farmer on the fallow field.
"Only lie still," I thought, as we returned to our ship, "only lie still, sleeping land!
Soon will the young life sprout green from thee and grow toward the blessings of Heaven!
Soon will the clouds never rain in vain, soon will the Sun find his old nurslings once more.
"You ask for men, Nature?
You complain, like a lyre on which only that brother of chance, the wind, plays because die artist who imposed order on it has died?
They will come, your men, O Nature!
A rejuvenated people will rejuvenate you, too, and you will be as its bride, and the old union of spirits will renew itself in you.
"There will be but one Beauty; and man and Nature will be united in one all-embracing divinity."
Volume Two |i/T| (pwoa, TOV airavra v i \ g X070V.
TO Ö'CTTCI cpawr) ßrjvat X€id€v, oitev ircp iix€l> iroXv Sevrcpov 0>S Ta7U7Ta.
Sophocles (Not to be born is, past all prizing, best; but, when a man has seen the light, this is next best by far, that with all speed he should go thither, whence he hath come.)
Book One Hyperion to Bellarmin We were experiencing the last beautiful moments of the year, after our return from Attica.
7 Autumn was a brother of spring for us, full of mild fire, a festival time for memories of sorrows and past joys of love.
The fading leaves bore the rosy hue of sunset; only die spruce and the laurel stood in eternal green.
Migrating birds lingered in the clear air, others swarmed in vineyard and garden, joyously reaping what men had left.
And the heavenly light ran pure from the cloudless sky, the sacred sun smiled through every twig—the kindly one, never named by me but with joy and gratitude, the sun that with a look has often healed me in deep sorrow, and cleansed my soul of discontent and cares.
We visited all our best loved paths once more, Diotima and I; vanished blissful hours met us everywhere.
We remembered the past May; never, we said, had we seen the Earth as it was then; it had been transformed, a silver cloud of flowers, a joyous flame of life, purified of all crude matter.
"Oh!
all was so full of pleasure and hope," cried Diotima, "so full of unceasing growth and yet so effortless, so blessedly quiet, like a child playing on and on without another thought."
"In that," I cried, "I recognize the soul of Nature—in that still fire, in that lingering in its mighty haste."
"And how dear it is to the happy, that lingering," cried Diotima; "do you remember?
once at twilight we stood together on the bridge, after a hard storm, and the red mountain stream shot away under us like an arrow, but there beside it the forest stood in green peace and the bright leaves scarcely stirred.
We felt so glad then that the living green did not flee from us too, like the brook, and that the beautiful spring stayed for us like a tame bird; yet now spring, too, is over the hills and away."
We smiled at that, although sorrow was closer to us.
So was our own bliss to depart, and we foresaw it.
O Bellarmin!
who shall dare to say that he stands fast, when even the beautiful thus ripens to its doom, when even the divine must humble itself and share mortality with all that is mortal!
Hyperion to Bellarmin I had lingered before her house with the lovely maid, until the lamp of night shone into the peaceful twilight; then I returned to Notara's   dwelling, full of thoughts, full of seething, heroic life, as always when I left her embraces.
A letter had come from Alabanda.
"Things are stirring, Hyperion," he wifote to me, "Russia has declared war on the Porte; they are bringing a fleet into the Archipelago;4, the Greeks are to be free if they rise and help drive the Sultan to the Euphrates.
The Greeks will do their share, the Greeks will be free, and I am heartily glad that at last there is something to do again.
I took no pleasure in the light of day, so long as this remained undone.
"If you are still what you were, come!
You will find me in the village before Coron as you come by the road from Mistra.
I live beside the hill, in the white house at the edge of the woods.
"I have broken with the men whom you met through me in Smyrna.
You were right, with your finer sensitivity, not to enter their sphere.
"I long for us to see each other again in the new life.
Until now, you have seen the world as too evil for you to let it know you.
Because you refused to perform servile tasks, you did nothing, and doing nothing made you morose and dreamy.
"You refused to swim in the swamp.
Come now, come and let us bathe in the open sea!
"It will do us good, O you who alone I love!"
So he wrote.
For a moment I was aghast.
My face burned with shame, my heart seethed like hot springs, and I could not stand still, such anguish did I feel at being outdistanced by Alabanda, outdone forever.
But then I all the more eagerly embraced the work before us.
"I have grown too idle," I cried, "too fond erf my ease, too remote, too inactive!—Alabanda looks into the world like a noble pilot; Alabanda is diligent and searches the waves for booty, and your hands sleep on your lap?
would you make do with words, and exorcise the world with magic spells?
But your words are like snowflakes, useless, they only make the air darker, and your magic formulas are for believers, but the unbelievers do not hear you.— Yes!
to be mild at the right time is a fine thing, but to be mild at the wrong time is ugly, for it is cowardly!—But, Harmodius!
I will match your myrtle, your myrtle, in which the sword lay hidden.
I will not have been idle for nothing, and my sleep shall be like oil *In the year 1770 (Hölderlin^ note).
7 when flame touches it.
I will not look on when the time is at hand, and will not go about asking for news while Alabanda earns the laurel."
Hyperion to Bellarmin Diotima's increasing pallor as she read Alabanda's letter pierced my soul.
She then began, calmly and earnestly, to advise me against the step, and we said many things for and against it.
"O men of violence!"
she cried at last, "who so quickly go to extremes, think of Nemesis!"
"He who suffers extremes," I said, "is right to go to extremes."
"Even if it is right," she said, "you were not born for it."
"So it seems," I said; "but I have dallied long enough.
Oh, would that I could load an Adas upon me, to make good the sins of my youth.
Is there consciousness in me?
is there endurance?
Oh, let me, Diotima!
Here, in just such work, must I gain it."
"This is vain pride!"
cried Diotima; "not long ago you were more modest, not long ago when you said, 'I must still go away and learn/ " "Dear sophist!"
I cried; "then we were talking of something entirely different.
To lead my people to the Olympus of divine Beauty, where Truth and all Goodness gushes from springs forever young—I am not yet fit to do that.
But I have learned to use a sword, and for the moment that is all that is needed.
The new union of spirits cannot live in the air, the sacred theocracy of the Beautiful must dwell in a free state, and that state must have a place on earth, and that place we shall surely conquer."
"You will conquer," cried Diotima, "and forget what for; you will, at the most, force the establishment of a free state, and then ask yourself, "What have I been building for?9 Ah!
it will be consumed, all the beautiful life that was to have being there, it will be exhausted even in you!
The savage fight will tear you to pieces, beautiful soul, you will grow old, blissful spirit!
and, weary unto death, you will ask in the end: 'Where are you now, you ideals of youth?'"
"It is cruel, Diotima," I cried, "thus to reach into my very heart, thus to hold me fast by my own fear of death, by my highest joy in life, but no!
no!
no!
Servitude kills, but just war brings every soul to   life.
It is casting the gold into the fire that gives it the color of the sun!
It is breaking fetters that first gives a man all his youth!
It isy arising and trampling on the adder, on the crawling century thaf poisons all Beauty and Nature in the bud—that alone saves a/ man!—I shall grow old, shall I, Diotima, setting Greece free?
grow old and miserable, become a common man?
Oh, then was he, too, shallow and empty and forsaken of the gods, that Athenian youth, when, bearing news of victory from Marathon, he came over the peak of Pentelicus and looked down into the valleys of Attica!"
"My love!
my love!"
cried Diotima, "oh, be still!
I will not say another word.
You shall go, shall go, proud man!
Ah!
when you are thus, I have no power over you, no right to you."
x She wept bitterly, and I stood before her like a criminal.
"Forgive me, divine maid!"
I cried, kneeling at her feet, "oh, forgive me, when I am compelled!
I do not choose; I do not reflect.
There is a power in me, and I know not if it is myself that drives me to this step."
"Your whole soul commands you to it," she answered.
"Not to obey one's soul often leads to destruction, yet obeying it does too.
It is best that you go, for it is nobler.
Act; I will bear it."
Hyperion to Bellarmin From then on Diotima was strangely changed.
I had seen with joy how, from the time we fell in love, her silent life had opened into looks and fond words and her inborn quietude had often met me with shining enthusiasm.
But how strange the beautiful soul becomes to us, when, after its first blossoming, after the morning of its course, it must rise to its high noon!
The blessed child had grown almost unrecognizable, so sublime and so sorrowful had she become.
Oh, how often did I lie before that divine, mourning figure, and thought that I should weep my soul away in grief for her, and then myself rose up in admiration and filled with unconquerable powers!
A flame had ascended into her eyes from her full heart.
Her bosom, teeming with longings and sorrows, had become too confining for her; that is why her thoughts were so glorious and bold.
A new greatness, a visible power over everything that could feel, ruled in  8 her.
She was a higher being.
She belonged to the race of mortals no longer.
O my Diotima, if I had thought then to what this must come!
Hyperion to Bellarmin The prudent Notara, too, was enchanted by the new projects, promised me a strong following, hoped soon to occupy the Isthmus of Corinth and there take Greece as it were by the handle.
But Kate decreed otherwise, and made his work useless before it achieved its end.
He advised me not to go to Una, but to travel directly down the Peloponnesus, escaping notice as far as possible.
I was to write to my father on the way, since the cautious old man would more easily condone a step that had been taken than give permission for one that had not.
This was not quite to my taste, but we are prone to sacrifice our private feelings when a great goal is before our eyes.
"I doubt," Notara continued, "if you will be able to count on your father's help in a matter of this sort.
So I shall give you what you will need in order to live and work for a time, come what may.
If you are ever able to, you can repay me; if not, what was mine was yours as well.
Feel no embarrassment about the money," he added with a smile; "even Phoebus' horses do not live on air alone, so the poets tell us."
Hyperion to Bellarmin And now the day of parting came.
I had spent the whole morning up in Notara's garden, in the fresh winter air, among the ever green cypresses and cedars.
The great powers of youth supported me, and my premonition of suffering to come bore me higher, like a cloud.
Diotima's mother had invited Notara and our other friends and myself to pass that last day together at her house.
Their kind hearts had all rejoiced over me and Diotima, and the element of the divine in our love had not been lost on them.
And now they were to bless my parting too.
I went down, I found the dear girl at the hearth.
She took it as a sacred, priestly duty to attend to the housekeeping that day.
She had put everything to rights, had beautified everything in the house, and no one was allowed to help her with it.
She had gathered all the flowers that still remained in the garden, she had brought roses and fresh bunches of grapes, even at that late time of year.
She recognized my footstep as I approached, she came softly toward me; her pale cheeks glowed from the fire of the hearth, and her eyes, larger in her new seriousness, were bright with tears.
She saw how overcome I was.
"Go inside, my dear," she said; "Mother is there, and I will follow at once."
I went in.
There she sat, the noble woman, and held out her beautiful hand to me.
"Have you come, have you come, my son?"
she cried.
"I ought to be angry with you, you have taken my child from me, have talked me out of all common sense, do just what you please and then go away; but forgive him, you Heavenly Powers, if what he means to do is wrong!
and if it is right, then be not slow to help the dear lad!"
I was going to speak, but just then Notara and our other friends came in, with Diotima behind them.
We were silent for a while.
We honored the grieving love that was in us all; we feared to presume upon it with words and arrogant thoughts, finally, after a few desultory remarks, Diotima asked me to tell them something about Agis and Cleomenes; I had often named those great souls with ardent respect and had said that they were no less demigods than Prometheus, and their battle against Sparta's fate more heroic than any in the most illustrious myths.
The genius of those men, I had said, was the sunset of the Greek day, as Theseus and Homer had been its dawn.
I told their story, and at its end we all felt stronger and more exalted.
"Happy is he," cried one of our friends, "whose life alternates between joy of heart and brisk battle!"
"Yes!"
cried another, "that is eternal youth, when enough powers are always in exercise and our whole selves are occupied in pleasure and work."
"Oh, that I could go with you!"
Diotima cried to me.
