Believe me, it is childishness to undertake to see such a being and not love her.
You look at me as if you did not know me, do you?
But I have grown a stranger to myself these last days, since her being has become so living a presence in me."
"Oh, why cannot I give her to you?"
I cried.
"Enough!"
he said.
"Do not try to console me, for here there is no place for consolation, I am alone, alone, and my life is running out like an hourglass."
"Great soul!"
I cried, "must it come to this for you?"
"Accept what is!"
he said.
"I was already beginning to wither when we found each other in Smyrna.
Yes!
in the days when I was still a ship's boy and my spirit and all my limbs were strong and swift on coarse food and daring work!
In those days, when in the clear air after a stormy night I clung to the top of the mast under the billowing flag and gazed after the seabird over the shining deep, when in frequent battle our raging ships tore up the sea as the boar's tusk tears the earth and I stood at my captain's side clear-eyed—in those days I lived, oh, then I lived!
And long after that, when the young Tiniote met me on the Smyrnean shore, with his earnestness, and his love, and my hardened soul was bedewed again by the youth's gaze and learned to love and to hold sacred all that is too good to be subdued, when I began a new life with him, and new, more spiritual powers germinated in me to make me better able to delight in the world and to struggle with it, then I hoped again—ah!
and all that I hoped and had was inseparably linked with you; I took you to me, sought to drag you into my destiny by force, lost you, found you again; our friendship alone was my world, my value, my fame; now that is over too, forever, and my whole existence is in vain."
"But is that true?"
I answered, sighing.
11 "True as the sun," he cried, "but let it be!
Everything is provided for."
"What do you mean, my Alabanda?
* said I.
"Let me tell you," he said.
"I have never yet spoken to you fully about a certain matter.
And then—it quiets both you and me a little when we talk of the past.
"Once long ago, helpless and desperate, I was wandering about the waterfront of Trieste.
The privateer on which I was serving had been shipwrecked some years earlier, and I had barelymanaged to save myself, with a few others, on the shore near Seville.
My captain was drowned and my life and my dripping garments were all that remained to me.
I undressed and rested in die sunshine and dried my clothes on the bushes.
Then I resumed my journey along the road to the city.
Before I came to the gates, I saw people making merry in the gardens; I entered and sang a happy Greek song.
I did not know a sad one.
All the while 1 was hot with the shame and pain of exhibiting my misfortune in this way.
I was an eighteen-year-old boy, wild and proud, and I hated like death to be the object of people's attention.
'Forgive me,91 said, when I had finished my song; '1 have just escaped from a shipwreck and at present know no better way to do the world a service than to sing to it.91 had said this in such Spanish as I could manage.
A man with a fine face came up to me, gave me money, and, speaking our language, said with a smile: "There!
buy yourself a grindstone with that and learn to sharpen knives, and you can resume your travels, but on dry land!9 The advice pleased me.
"Sir!
I will do just that,91 answered.
All the others rewarded me liberally too, and I left them and did as the man had .
advised me, and so wandered for a time through Spain and France.
"What I experienced during that time, how the thousand forms that servitude assumes intensified my love of freedom and many a hard hour of need increased my courage to live and sharpened my wits, 1 have often delighted in telling you.
"I practiced my innocent, wandering trade with pleasure, but finally it was spoiled for me.
"People took it to be a mask, probably because I did not look mean enough for such an occupation; they imagined I was covertly engaged in some dangerous undertaking, and in fact I was twice arrested.
All this decided me to give it up, and with the little money I had earned I set out to make my way back to the home from which I  5 had run away* I was soon in Trieste and about to start down through Dalmatia.
Just then the accumulated hardships of my journey laid me low with an illness that made my small capital vanish.
Only half recovered, I was wandering sadly along the waterfront at Trieste.
Suddenly, there stood the man who had once befriended me when I was cast ashore at Seville.
He was wonderfully glad to see me, told me that he often thought of me, and asked how things had gone with me meanwhile.
I told him all.
'I see,9 he cried, 'that it was no bad thing to send*you to the school of fete for a while.
You have learned endurance, now you shall go to work whenever you please.'
"The words, his tone, his handclasp, his manner, his look, all went like some divine force to my inmost being, which much suffering had now made even more inflammable than before, and I surrendered.
"The man of whom I speak, Hyperion, was one of those whom you saw with me in Smyrna.
The very next night he introduced me to the members of a solemn society.
A shudder ran through me as I entered the room and my companion, pointing to the earnest group of men, said: 'This is the League of Nemesis/ Intoxicated by the immense sphere of action that opened before me, I solemnly made over my blood and my soul to these men.
Soon afterward the meeting was adjourned, to be reconvened in some other place years later, and each set out on the appointed path that he was to follow through the world.
I'was made an associate of those whom you found with me some years afterward in Smyrna.
"The constraint under which I lived often tortured me; then too, I saw little of the great accomplishments of the League and my hunger for action found little nourishment.
But all this was not enough to enable me to desert.
My love for you finally led me away.
I have often told you that I was as if without air and sun when you were absent; and I had no other choice: I must give up either you or my League.
What I chose, you see.
"But every human act finds its punishment at last; only gods and children are not smitten by Nemesis.
"I put the divine right of the heart first.
For my dear one's sake I broke myoath.
Was not that right?
must hot the noblest longing Be the freest?—My heart took me at my word; I gave it freedom, and you see it uses it  11 "Once do homage to the Genius and he will heed no mortal hindrance thereafter, he will tear all the bonds of life in two for you.
"I broke my obligation for my friend's sake; I would break friendship for the sake of love.
For Diotima's sake I would betray you, and finally kill Diotima and myself because, even so, we should not be one.
But it shall stop here; if I must pay for what I did, I will do it freely; I choose my own judge; those whom I failed shall have me."
a Do you speak of your fellows in the League?"
I cried; "O my Alabanda!
do it not!"
aWhat can they take from me but my blood?"
he answered.
Then he gently clasped my hand.
"Hyperion!"
he cried, "my time has run out, and all that remains to me is a noble end.
Leave me!
do not make me less than I am, have faith in my word!
I know as well as you do that I could still trump up some kind of existence for myself could, now that life's meal is eaten, still sit playing with the crumbs; but that is not for me, nor for you.«Need I say more?
Do I not speak to you from your own soul?
I thirst for air, for coolness, Hyperion!
My soul seethes over of itself and will no longer be confined to the old circle.
Soon the beautiful days of winter will be here, when the dark earth is but the foil to the shining heavens—that would be the right time, then the isles of light glimmer the more hospitably!— You are amazed by what I say?
Dearest one!
all who are departing talk like drunken men and delight to behave as at a feast.
When the tree begins to wither, do not all its leaves bear the red of morning?"
"Great soul," I cried, "must I bear to pity you?"
I sensed from his exaltation how deeply he was suffering.
I had never felt such grief in my life.
And yet, O Bellarmin, yet I felt the greatness of all joys, to hold such a godlike figure in my eyes and arms.
"Yes!
die," I cried, "die!
Your heart is glorious enough, your life is ripe, like grapes in autumn.
Go, perfected one!
I would go with you, if there were no Diotima."
"Have I convinced you now?"
answered Alabanda, "are these your words?
how deep, how full of soul does all become when once my Hyperion comprehends it!"
"He flatters," I cried, "to wheedle the unconsidered word from me a second time!
good gods!
to wrest leave from me for his journey to the tribunal of blood!"
7 "I do not flatter," he answered gravely, "I have a right to do what you would prevent, and no common right!
Honor it!"
There was a fire in his eyes that struck me down like a divine command, and I felt ashamed to say another word in opposition to him.
"They will not," I thought meanwhile, "they cannot do it It is too senseless to slaughter such a glorious life, like a sacrificial animal," and this conviction calmed me.
It was strangely profitable still to hear him the following night, when each of us had made ready for his separate journey and, just before daybreak, we had gone out again to be alone together once more.
"Do you know," he said, among other things, "why I have never thought anything but lightly of death?
I feel a life in me which no god created and no mortal begot.
I believe that our existence is from ourselves and that it is only of our own free pleasure that we are so intimately connected with all that is."
"I have never heard you say such a thing before," I replied.
"And what," he went on, "what would this world itself be, if it were not a harmony of free beings?
if from the beginning the living Hid not work together, of their own free impulse, in one full-voiced life, how wooden would it not be?
how cold?
what a heartless assemblage of forms?"
"So it would be true here in the highest sense," I answered, "that without freedom all is dead."
"Yes, yes," he cried, "why!
not a blade of grass sprouts up if it has not its own seed of life within it!
And how much more in me!
and therefore, dear lad, because I feel that I am free in the highest sense, that I have no beginning, therefore I believe that I shall have no end, that I am indestructible.
If a potter's hand made me, he may smash his vessel whenever he pleases.
But what lives must be unbegotten, must be of divine nature in its seed, raised above all force and all art, and therefore inviolable, eternal.
"Every man has his mysteries, dear Hyperion!
his more secret thoughts; these were mine—ever since I have thought.
"What lives is ineradicable, remains free in its deepest form of servitude, remains one even if you split it to the base, remains  11 unwounded even if you pierce it to the marrow and its being flies victorious from your hands.—But the morning wind freshens; our ships are awake.
O my Hyperion!
I have won through; I have had the strength to pronounce the death sentence on my heart and to divide you and me, beloved of my life!
be tender to me now!
spare me your leave-taking!
let us be quick!
come!—" A chill ran through my every bone, as I heard him begin thus.
"Oh, by your loyalty, Alabanda!"
I cried, prostrate before him, "must it be, must it be indeed?
You shouted me down unfairly, you dragged me along in a frenzy.
Brother!
you did not leave me sense enough even to ask: 'Where are you going?'"
"I may not name the place, dear heart!"
he answered; "yet perhaps we shall see each other once again."
"See each other again?"
I answered; "then I am the richer by one belief!
and so I shall become richer and richer in belief and in the end all will be but belief for me."
"Dear one!"
he cried, "let us be still when words do not help!
let us end like men!
You are spoiling these last moments for yourself»" Meanwhile, we had come to the harbor.
"One thing more!"
he said, when we were beside his ship.
"Greet your Diotima!
Love each other!
be happy, beautiful souls!"
"O my Alabanda," I cried, "why can I not go in your stead?"
"What you are called to is more beautiful," he answered; "hold to it!
you belong to her, that fair being is henceforth your world—ah!
since there is no happiness without sacrifice, accept me as the sacrifice, O Bate, and leave the lovers in their joy!—" His heart began to overpower him, and he tore himself from me and leaped into the ship, to shorten the parting for himself and for me.
I felt the moment like a thunderclap, on which night and deathly silence followed, but in the midst of this annihilation my soul recovered to hold him back, the dear one who was departing, and my arms sprang out toward him of themselves.
"Alas!
Alabanda!
Alabanda!"
I cried, and heard a muffled "Farewell" from the ship.
9 Hyperion to Bellarmin As it happened, the vessel that was to take me to Calaurea delayed until late in the day on which Alabanda had gone his way in the morning.
I stayed by the shore and, wearied by the pains of parting, gazed silently at the sea, hour after hour.
My spirit told over the sorrowful days of my slowly dying youth and waveringly, like the beautiful dove, flitted over the time to come.
I wanted to strengthen myself, I took out my long forgotten lute to sing a Song of Fate that once in happy, heedless youth I had repeated after my Adamas.
You move up there in the light On easeful ground, blessed Geniuses!
Bright divine airs Touch you lightly, As the player's fingers Her holy strings.
Outside of Bate, like the sleeping Babe, the Heavenly Ones breathe; Chastely guarded In modest bud, Ever for them Hie spirit blooms, And their blessed eyes Gaze in still, Eternal light.
But to us it is given Nowhere to rest, Suffering men Falter and fall BBncDy from one Hour to die next, Like water flung down from cüff to cliff, ~ Yearlong into uncertainty.
12 So I sang to the strings.
I had scarcely finished when a boat arrived; in it I immediately recognized my servant, who brought me a letter from Diotima.
"So you are still on earth?"
she wrote, "and still see the light of day?
I thought I should find you elsewhere, my love!
Sooner than you afterward wished, I received the letter that you wrote before the battle at Cheshme, and so for a whole week I lived believing that you had thrown yourself into the arms of death, before your servant arrived with the joyful news that you are still alive.
Moreover, I had heard only a few days after the battle that the ship on which I knew you to be had blown up with all hands.
"But O sweet voice!
again I heard you, once again the speech of the beloved touched me like the air of May, and your beautiful, hopeful joy, the lovely phantom of our future happiness, for a moment deceived me too.
"Dear dreamer, why must I wake you?
why can I not say, 'Come, and make them true, the beautiful days that you promised me!'
But it is too late, Hyperion, it is too late.
Your maiden has withered since you have been gone; a fire in me has slowly consumed me, and there is only a little left.
Do not be dismayed!
Everything in Nature purifies itself, and everywhere the flower of life frees itself more and more from coarser stuff» "Dearest Hyperion!
little did you think to hear my swan song this year.
Continuation "Almost as soon as you had gone—nay, even in the days of our parting—it began.
A strength in my spirit that made me afraid, an inner life before which the life of earth paled and faltered, like night lights in the red of morning—Shall I say it?
I could have wished to go to Delphi and build a temple to the God of Inspiration under the cliffs of ancient Parnassus, and, a new Pythia, fire the indolent peoples with divine oracles; and my soul knows that my maidenly mouth would have opened the eyes and unknit the brows of all those godforsaken dullards, so powerful was the spirit of life in me!
But my mortal limbs grew wearier and wearier and my tormenting  1 melancholy bore me inexorably down.
Ah!
often in my quiet arbor I wept over the roses of youth!
they faded and faded, and your maiden's cheeks were red from tears.
The trees of old were still there, and the bower of old—there once your Diotima stood, your child, Hyperion, before your happy eyes, a blossom among the blossoms, and the powers of Earth and Heaven met peacefully in her; now she walked a stranger among the buds of May, and her trusted confidants, the lovely plants, nodded to her as to a friend, but she could only mourn; yet I passed none of them by; yet, one after one, I took leave of all die companions of my youth, die groves and springs and rustling hillocks.
"Ah!
as long as 1 could, I went with sweet effort up to the height where you lived with Notara, and talked of you with our friend, as cheerfully as possible, so that he should not write to you of me; but soon, when her heart grew too loud, the dissembler slipped out into the garden, and now there I was at the railing, above the cliff from which I once looked down with you and out into untrammeled Nature; ah!
where once I stood, held by your hands, guarded round by your eyes, in the Tirst trembling warmth of love and would fain have poured my overflowing soul, lüce sacrificial wine, into the abyss of life, there now I staggered about and bewailed my grief to die wind, and my gaze flitted like a shy bird and scarcely dared to look at the beautifulEartfiTfrom which I was to depart Continuation "Thus has it befallen your maiden, Hyperion.
Ask not how; seek not to explain this death to yourself!
He who thinks to fathom such a fate ends by cursing himself and all things, and yet not a soul is to blame.
"Am I to tell you that grief for you has killed me?
oh no!
oh no!
it was welcome to me, that grief, it gave the death that I carried within me form and grace; 'You die to honor your beloved,' I could tell myself now.— "Or did my soul grow overripe in all the enchantments of our love, and is that why, like a restive youth, it will no longer stay in its humble home?
speak!
was it my heart's exuberance that divorced me  12 from mortal life?
did my nature, having known your glorious sel£> become too proud to be content on this mediocre star?
But if you taught it to fly, why do you not also teach my soul to return to you?
If you kindled the ether-loving fire, why did you not guard it for me?—Hear me, beloved!
for your fair soul's sake!
do not accuse yourself of my death!
"Could you hold me back, when your destiny showed you the same road?
and if, amid the heroic struggle dt your heart, you had preached to me: 'Be satisfied, child!
and adapt yourself to the times!1 would you not have been the most futile of all the futile?
Continuation "I will tell you exactly what I believe.
Your fire lived in me, your spirit had passed into me; but that could hardly have harmed me, and only your destiny made my new life deadly to me* My soul had grown too strong for me through you, yet through you it would have grown quiet again* You drew my life away from the Earth, but you would also have had power to bind me to the Earth; you would have conjured my soul into your embracing arms as into a magic circle; äbi one dt your loving looks would have held me fest, one of your loving speeches would have made me a happy, healthy, child again; but when a unique destiny bore you away to solitude of spirit as waters are borne to mountain peaks, oh then, when at last I believed that the storm of battle had burst open your prison and my Hyperion had soared up into his old freedom again, only then was all decided for me, and now must soon end* "I have used many words, yet the great Roman heroine died silent when her Brutus and her country were struggling in the'throes of death* What better could I do in the best of my last days of life?—Yet still I feel an urgency to say many things* My life was silent; my death is loquacious* Enough!
Continuation "I must tell you but one thing more* u You would have to perish, you would be bound to despair, but  3 the spirit will save you.
No laurel will comfort you and no crown of myrtle; Olympus will be your comfort, the living, present Olympus that blooms ever young about all your senses.
The beautiful world is my Olympus; in it you will live; and with the holy beings of the world, with the Gods of Nature, with them you will be happy.
"O be you welcome, you good and true!
you deeply missed, you unrecognized!
children and eldest of all!
Sun and Earth and Ether, with all living souls that play about you, about whom you play, in eternal love!
oh, take all-endeavoring mankind, take the fugitives back into the family of the gods, receive them into the home of Nature, from which they fled!— "You know this word, Hyperion!
You began it in me.
You will fulfill it in yourself, and dien rest.
"I have enough of it to die happily, a Grecian maiden.
"The poor creatures who know nothing but to toil at their petty labors, who serve only necessity and scorn the Genius and pay you no honor, childlike life of Nature!
let them fear death.
Their yoke has become their world; they know nothing better than their servitude; they shrink from the divine freedom that death gives us!
"But not ILI have risen above the piecework that human hands have made.
I have felt the life of Nature, which is higher than all thought—if I become a plant, would that be so great a loss?—I shall be.
How should I be lost from the sphere of life, in which eternal love, common to all, holds all natures together?
how should I escape from the union that binds all beings together?
It does not break as easily as the loose bonds of this age.
It is not like a market day, when the people run together and make a hubbub and part.
No!
by the spirit that makes us one, by the divine spirit that is each man's own and is common to all!
no!
no!
in the union of Nature fidelity is no dream!
We part only to be more intimately one, more divinely at peace with all, with each other.
We die that we may live.
"I shall be; I ask not what I shall be.
To be, to live—that is enough, that is the honor of the gods; and therefore all things that but have life are equal in the divine world, and in it there are no masters and servants.
Natures live together, like lovers; they hold all in common, spirit, joy, and eternal youth.
"The stars have chosen permanence; they float forever in quiet fullness of life and Jcnow not age.
We represent perfection in mutability; we divide the great harmonies of joy into changing melodies.
12 Like harp players about the thrones of the eldest of all, we live, ourselves divine, among the quiet Gods of the World; with our fleeting lovesong we temper the blissful seriousness of the Sun God and the rest.
"Look up into the world!
Is it not like an advancing triumphal procession by which Nature celebrates her eternal victory over all corruption?
and does not life lead death with it to glorification, as the general once led captive kings with him?
and we, we are the virgins and the youths, who accompany the majestic procession with dance and song in changing shapes and tones* "Now let me be silent.
To say more would be too much.
We shall, I must believe, meet again.— "Sorrowing youth!
soon, soon will you be happier.
Your laurel did not ripen, and your myrtles faded, for you shall be the priest of divine Nature, and your days of poetry are already germinating.
aOh, could I but see you in your future beauty!
Farewell.
* At the same time I received a letter from Notara, in which he wrote: "The day after she wrote to you for the last time, she became very quiet, spoke a few words more, and then said that she would rather leave the earth in fire than be buried, and that we should collect her ashes in an urn and put them in the forest, in the place where you, dear one!
first met her.
Soon afterward, as it began to grow dark, she bade us good night, as if she wanted to sleep» and put her arms around her beautiful head; we heard her breathing until nearly morning.
As it became perfectly still then and I heard nothing more, I went in to her and listened.
"O Hyperion!
what else shall I say?
It was over, and our lamenting wakened her no more.
"It is a terrible mystery that such a life must die, and I will confess to you that I myself have neither mind nor belief since I saw this happen.
"But a beautiful death is always better, Hyperion!
than such a somnolent life as ours now is.
"To brush away flies is our work in the future; and to gnaw on the things of the world as children gnaw on the hard iris-root—that, in the end, is our pleasure J o grow old among young peoples seems to me a delight, but to grow old where all is old seems to me worse than anything.—  5 "I would advise you, my Hyperion!
not to come here.
I know you.
It would drive you out of your mind.
Then too, you are not safe here.
My dear friend!
dunk of Diotima's mother, think of me, and preserve yourself!
f "I will confess to you that I shudder when I consider youi^faü^jBut I believe, too, that the burning summer does not dry up tKe aeep springs, but only the shallow rain-fed stream.
I have seen you at moments, Hyperion, when you seemed to me a higher being.
You are now put to the test, and you must show who you are.
Farewell."
So Notara wrote; and you ask, my Bellarmin!
how it is with me now, while I tell you of this.
Best of friends!
I am at peace, for I want nothing better than the gods.
Must not all things suffer?
And the more excellent, the more deeply!
Does not sacred Nature suffer?
O my Divinity!
that you could mourn as you are blissful—that was long beyond my understanding.
But the bliss that does not suffer is sleep, and without death there is no life.
Should you be eternally like a child, and sleep like that which is nothing?
forego victory?
not run through all perfections?
Yes!
yes!
sorrow is worthy tQ lie at man's heart and to be your intimate, O Nature!
For it but leads from one bliss to another, and there is no other companion on the way.— I wrote to Notara, when I began to revive again, from Sicily, to which a ship from Paros first brought me: "I have obeyed you, my dear Notara!
I am already far from my friends in Calaurea and now wish to send you news; but words are hard for me, I must confess.
The blessed, among whom Diotima now is, do not speak much; in my night, in the abyss of the mourner, there is an end to speech too.
"My Diotima died a beautiful death; in that you are right; and it is that, too, which awakens me, and gives me back my sod.
"But it is not to the world as it was that I return.
I am a stranger, like the unburied when they come up from Acheron, and if I were on my native island, in the gardens of my youth, which my father bars to me, ah!
even then, even then I should be a stranger on earth, and no god would join me to the past again.
"Yes!
all is over.
I must only say that to myself again and again, must bind my soul with it, so that it shall remain quiet and not fire up in senseless, childish efforts.
"All is over; and even if I could weep, beautiful Divinity, as once  12 you wept for Adonis, my Diotima will not come back to me and die wordjjf _aiy heart has lost its power, for only the winds hear me.
"God!
that I myself am nothing, and that the meanest workman can say he has done more than I!
that they are free to solace themselves, the shallow of.
mind, and smile and: mockingly call me dreamer, because my deeds did not ripen for me, because my arms are not free, because the time in which I live is like the.
raging Procrustes who, capturing men, put them in a child's cradleand, to.
make them fit into that little bed, hacked off their limbs!
"If only it were not too utterly desperate to fling myself among the crowd of fools and be torn to pieces!
or if only noble blood need not be ashamed to mix with the blood of serfs!
oh, if there were a banner, you Gods!
under which my Alabanda might serve, a Thermopylae where I could honorably let it bleed to death, all the lonely love for which I never find a use!
To be sure, it would be better if I could live, could live, and quiet great woe with great joy in the new temples, in the newly assembled Agora of our people; yet I speak not of that, for I but weep my strength wholly away when I think of it all.
"Ah!
Notara!
it is over with me too; I am weary of my own soul because I reproach it with Diotima's death, and the thoughts of my youth, which I prized so greatly, mean nothing to me now.
Did they not poison my Diotima!
"And now tell me, what refuge remains?—Yesterday I went to the summit of Aetna.
There I remembered the great Sicilian who, weary of counting the hours, knowing the soul of die World, in his bold joy in life there flung himself down into the glorious flames, for 'the cold poet had to warm himself at the fire,9 said someone later, to mock him.
"O how gladly would I have taken such mockery upon myself!
but one must think more highly of oneself than I do before, thus unbidden, one can flee to Nature's heart, or whatever else you may be pleased to call it, for, believe me!
as I am now I have no names for things and all before me is uncertainty.
"And now, Notara!
tell me what refuge remains?
"In Calaurea's woods?—Yes!
in the green darkness there where our trees, the faithful witnesses of our love, still stand, where, like the red of evening, their dying foliage falls on Diotima's urn and their beautiful crowns, gradually growing old, bend over Diotima's  7 urn, until they, too, fall upon the beloved ashes—there, there, I could perhaps live as I wished "But you advise me to stay away, you think that I am not safe in Calaurea, and it may be so.
"I know very well you will tell me to go to Alabanda.
But listen!
he is destroyed!
even that firm, slender tree is mouldering, too, and boys will gather up the chips and make themselves a merry fire with them« He has gone; he has certain good friends who will make things easy for him, who are peculiarly skilled in helping out anyone who finds life something of a burden; he has gone to visit them, and why?
because there is nothing else for him to do, or, if you would know all, because a passion is eating out his heart, and do you know for whom?
for Diotima, whom he believes to be still alive and married to me and happy—poor Alabanda!
now she belongs to us both!
MHe traveled into the east, and I am taking a ship northwestward, because chance will have it so«— "And now farewell to all of you!
all you dear ones who have been close to my heart, friends of my youth and you my parents, and all you dear Greeks, you sufferers!
"You airs that nourished me in tender childhood, and you dark laurel woods and you cliffs by the shore and you majestic waters that taught my soul to surmise your greatness—and ah!
you monuments of sorrow, where my melancholy began, you sacred walls with which the heroic cities girdle themselves, and you ancient gates through which many a beautiful traveler passed, you temple pillars and you rubble of the gods!
and you, O Diotima!
and you valleys of my love, and you brooks that once saw her blessed form, you trees where she rejoiced, you springtimes in which she lived, lovely with her flowers, depart.not, depart not from me!
yet if it must be, you sweet memories!
grow dim you too and leave me, for man can change nothing and the light of life comes and departs as it will."
Hyperion to Bellarmin So I arrived among the Germans.
I did not demand much and was prepared to find even less.
I came there humbly, like homeless, blind  12 Oedipus to the gates of Athens, where the sacred grove received him; and fair souls came to greet him— How different my experience!
Barbarians from the remotest past, whom industry and science and even religion have made yet more barbarous, profoundly incapable of any divine emotion, spoiled to the coreTor tfceltelights of the sacred Graces, offensive to every well-conditioned soul through the whole range from pretense to pettiness, hollow and tuneless, like the shards of a discarded pot—such, my Bellarmin!
were my comforters« It is a hard saying, and yet I speak it because it is the truth: I can think of no people more at odds with themselves than the Germans J You see artisans/Butno men, thinkers, but no men, priests, but no men, masters and servants, but no men, minors and adults, but no men—is this not like a battlefield on which hacked-off hands and arms and every other member are scattered about, while the life- blood flows from them to vanish in the sand?
Everyone follows his own trade, you will tell me, and I say the same.
jQnly, he must follow jt with his whole soul, must not stifle every power in him that does not precSelyaccord with his official designation, must not, with this niggardly anxiety, literally and hypocritically be only what he Is called; Jet him be what he is, earnestly, lovingly, then a spirit jives in all that he does; and if he is forced into an occupation in which the spirit may not live, let him cast it off with scorn and learn to plow!
But your Germans choose not to go beyond the barest necessities, which is the reason why there is so much botched work among them and so little that is free, that gives any genuine pleasure.
Yet that could be overlooked, were not such men of necessity insensitive to what is beautiful in life, did not the curse of godforsaken unnature everywhere lie upon such a people,— "The virtues of the Ancients were but glittering vices," was once said by some malicious tongue (I forget whose); and yet their vices themselves are virtues, for a childlike, beautiful spirit still lived in them, andof all that they did nothing was done without soul But the virtues of t&eXjefmäns are glittering vices and nothing more; for thff jy&Jbut ji&rcedlabor, wrung from the sterile heart in craven feajr, with the toil of slaves, and they impart no comfort to any pure soul  9 that would draw its sustenance from Beauty, that, ah!
made fastidious by the sacred harmony in noble natures, cannot bear the discord that cries out in all the dead order of these men« I tell you: there is nothing sacred that is not desecrated, is not debased to a miserable expedient among this people; and what even among savages is usually preservedjn sacred purity, these all-calculating barbarians pursue as one pursues any trade, and cannot do otherwise jjbr where a human Jbelng is once conditioned to look, there it serves its ends, seeks its profit, it dreams no more—God forbid!—Ft remains sedate; and when it makes holiday and when it loves and when it prays, and even when spring's lovely festival, when die season of reconciliation for die world dissolves all cares and conjures innocence into a guilty heart, when, intoxicated by the sun's warm rays, the slave in his joy forgets his chains, and the enemies of mankind, softened by the divinely living air, are as peaceaBTe as children—when the caterpillar itself grows wings and the bees swarm, even dien the German sticks to his petty tasks and scarcely deigns to notice the weather!
But you will sit in judgment,, sacred Nature!
For were they but modest, these people, did they Mit not make themselves a law unto die better among diem!
did they but revile not what they are not, yet even that could be condoned in them, did they but not mock the divine!— Or is not that divine which you Germans mock and call soulless?
Is not the air that you drink in better than your chatter?
are not the sun's rays nobler than all of you in your cleverness?
the earth's springs and the morning dew refresh your forests; can you too do as much?
ah!
you can kill, but you cannot bring to life, unless it is done by love, which proceeds not from you, which you did not invent.
You worry and contrive, that you may escape Bate, and cannot understand it when your childish arts are unavailing; and meanwhile the stars move innocently on above you.
Where she tolerates you, you degrade and mangle patient Nature, yet she lives on, in eternal youth, and you cannot drive away her autumn and her spring, you corrupt not her ether.
Oh, she must indeed be divine, since you are permitted to destroy and she grows not old and despite you Beauty remains beautiful!— It is heart-rending, too, to see your poets, your artists, and all  13 those who still honor the Genius, who love and cultivate Beauty.Th^ poor good creatures live in the world like strangers in their own "'house, they are exactly like long-suffering Ulysses when he sat at his door disguised as a beggar while the shameless suitors rioted in the hall and asked "Who sent us this vagabond?"
Their Muse-inspired youths grow up lor the German people full of love and spirit and hope; see them seven years later, and they are wandering about like shades, silent and cold, they are like a soil that the enemy has sown with salt so that it shall never put forth a blade of grass, and when they speak, alas for him who understands them!
for him who in their raging Titan strength, as in their protean arts, can see the desperate battle that their beautiful, troubled spirit wages against the barbarians with whom it is forced to deal!
^Everything on earth is imperfect," is the Germans' old refrain.
If only someone would once tell these people whom God has forsaken that everything is so imperfect among them only because they leave nothing pure uncorrupted, nothing sacred untouched by their coarse hands, that nothing thrives among them because they do not respect the root of all thriving, divine Nature, that life with them is sj:ale_and imrdened with cares and full of cold, silent discord, because they scorn the Genius, which brings power and nobilityipto human endeavor, and serenity into suffering, and love and .brotherhood to towns and houses.
And that too is why they are so afraid of death and, for the sake of their molluscan existence, bear every indignity, for they know nothing higher than the bungling job that they have made of things.
O Bellarmin, where a people loves Beauty, where it honors the Genius in its own artists, there a common spirit is astir like the breath of life, there the shy mind opens, self-conceit melts away, and all hearts are reverent and great and enthusiasm brings forth heroes.
The home of all men is with such a people and gladly can the stranger linger there.
But where divine Nature and her artists are so insulted, ah!
there life's greatest joy is gone, and any other star is Better than earth.
There men grow ever more sterile, evemnore empty, who yet were all born beautiful; servility increases and with its insolence, intoxication grows with troubles and, with luxury, hunger and dread of starvation; the blessing of each year becomes a curse, and all gods flee.
1 And woe for the stranger who journeys in love and comes to such a people and three times woe for him who comes to such a people as I came, driven by great grief, a beggar as I was a beggar!— Enough!
you know me, and will take this in good part, Bellarmin!
I spoke in your name too, I spoke for all who are in that country and who suffer as I suffered there.
Hyperion to Bellarmin I now wanted to leave Germany.
I looked for nothing more among these people, I had been sufficiently offended by relentless affronts, I was unwilling to let my soul bleed to death among such men.
But the heavenly spring detained me; it was the only pleasure that remained to me, it was indeed my last love, how could I think of other things and leave the country where spring too was?
Bellarmin!
never had I so fully experienced the old unchanging decree of Rite that a new bliss rises in the heart when it perseveres and suffers through the midnight of anguish, and that, like nightingale voices in the dark, the world's song of life first sounds divinely for us in deep affliction.
For I now lived with the blooming trees as with geniuses, and the clear brooks that flowed under them whispered the care from my breast like divine voices.
And so it befell me everywhere, dear friend!—when I lay in the grass and tender life grew green around me, when I climbed the warm hill on which the rose grew wild about the stone path, and when I rowed along the gay river shore and among all the islands that the river tenderly protects.
And when on many a morning, as the sick to medicinal springs, I climbed to the mountain's summit through the sleeping flowers, but all about me, sated with sweet sleep, the dear birds flew out of the foliage, reeling in the half-light and craving the day, and the more active air now carried up the prayers of the valleys, the voices of the flocks, and the notes of the morning bells, and now the high light, divinely serene, followed its accustomed path, enchanting the Earth with immortal life, so that her heart grew warm and all her children felt their existence again—oh!
like die moon, which still waited in the sky to share the joy of the day, I stood lonely too above the plains  13 and wept loving tears down to the shores and the shining waters and for a long time could not turn away my eyes.
Or at evening, when I wandered far into the valley, to the cradle of the spring, where the dark oak tops rustled around me and Nature buried me in her peace like one who dies a blessed death, when the earth was a shadow, and invisible life whispered among the branches, among the summits, and over the summits hung the still evening cloud, a shining mountain from which heaven's rays flowed down to me, like brooks to quench the traveler's thirst— wO Sun, O you breezes," I cried, "by you alone my heart still lives, äs among brothers!"
Thus more and more I surrendered myself to blessed Nature^juid almost too endlessly.
How gladly would I have become a child again to be nearer to her, how gladly would I have known less and become like the pure ray of light to be nearer to her!
oh, one moment in her peace, to feel her beauty, oh, how much more it meant to me than years full of thought, than all the endeavors of all-endeavoring mankind!
What I had learned, what I had done in my life, dissolved like ice, and all the projects of youth died away in me; O you loved ones far away, you dead and you living, how intimately at one we were!
Once I sat far in the fields, by a spring, in the shadow of ivy-green cliffs and overhanging shrubs in flower.
It was the fairest noonday I have known.
Sweet breezes blew and the land still shone in morning freshness and the light smiled silently from its native ether.
Hie laborers had all gone home to eat and rest from their work; my love was alone with the springtime and in me was an inconceivable longing.
"Diotima," I cried, "where are you, oh, where are you?"
And it seemed to me that I heard Diotima's voice, the voice that cheered me in the days of happiness— "I am with my kindred," she cried, "with your kindred, whom the erring minds of men know not."
