the cockle shell has been completely engulfed.
O heaven!
how can one go on living after experiencing such delights!
I had just been given the privilege of witnessing the death- throes of several of my fellow-beings.
Minute by minute I followed the vicissitudes of their agony.
Now the bawling of some old woman, mad with fear, was at a premium.
Now only the yelling of a child at breast prevented the steering orders from being heard.
The vessel was too far away for me to hear distinctly the sound of groans carried on the gust; but I brought it nearer by an act of will, and the optical illusion was perfect.
Every quarter of an hour, when a gust stronger than the others, uttering its mournful tones above the cries of fear-stricken petrels, broke up the ship in a longitudinal crunching movement, increasing the laments of those about to be offered as sacrifices to death, I dug a sharp metal point deep in my cheek and secretly thought: They are suffering more!
In this way I at least had a point of comparison.
I apostrophized them from the shore, hurling threats and imprecations at them.
It seemed that they ought to hear me!
It seemed that my hatred and my words, over-leaping the distance, were abolishing the physical laws of sound and distinctly reaching their ears which had been deafened by the roaring of the angry ocean.
It seemed that they ought to think of me, and breathe vengeance in impotent rage!
From time to time I looked up towards the cities slumbering on firm land; and seeing that nobody suspected that a ship was going to sink some miles from shore, with birds of prey for a crown and ravenous aquatic giants for a pedestal, I took courage again and hope returned to me: so I was certain of their destruction!
They could not escape!
To make assurance doubly sure, I had gone to fetch my double-barreled rifle so that if some survivor was tempted to approach the rocks of the shore to escape imminent death, a bullet in the shoulder would shatter his arm and prevent him from carrying out his plan.
At the moment of the tempest's greatest fury, I saw a head, its hair standing on end, frantically bobbing up and down in the water.
The swimmer was swallowing litres of water and, buoyed up like a cork, was sinking into the deep.
But soon he would reappear, his hair streaming, his eyes riveted on the shore; he seemed to be challenging death.
His composure was admirable.
A huge bleeding wound caused by the jagged point of a hidden reef had gashed his brave and noble face.
He could not have been more than sixteen years old; for the peach-like down on his upper lip could just be made out by the flashes which lit up the night.
And now he was only two hundred yards from the cliff.
I could easily get a clear view of him.
What courage!
What indomitable spirit!
How the determined set of his head seemed to flout destiny as he vigorously cleaved the waves which did not easily give way before him.
I had made up my mind in advance.
I owed it to myself to keep my promise; the last hour had tolled for all; none must escape.
That was my resolution; nothing would change it...a sharp sound was heard, the head went down, and did not reappear.
I did not take much pleasure in this murder as one might think; it was precisely because I was sated with all this killing which I was doing out of pure habit; one cannot do without it, but it provides only a slight enjoyment.
The sense is dulled, hardened.
What pleasure could I feel at the death of this human being when there were more than a hundred who, once the ship had gone down, would provide me with the spectacle of their deaths and their last struggle against the waves?
This death did not even have the appeal of danger; for human justice, rocked by the hurricane of this dreadful night, was slumbering within doors, a few steps from me.
And now that the years are weighing down on me, I can sincerely speak this simple and solemn truth: I was never as cruel as men afterwards said I was; whereas many times their persistent acts of wickedness went on wreaking havoc for years on end.
Then my rage knew no bounds; I was possessed by fits of cruelty and I became fearsome to anyone who came within sight of my haggard eyes--that is, if he was of my race.
If it was a horse or a dog, I let it pass: have you heard what I have just said?
Unfortunately, on the night of that tempest, one of those fits had come upon me, my reason had abandoned me (for normally I was just as cruel, but more cautious); everything which fell into my hands that night would have to die; I am not claiming that this excuses my misdeeds.
The fault is not entirely with my fellow- creatures.
I am only stating things as they are while I wait for the last judgment, which makes me scratch my head in advance...What does the last judgment matter to me!
My reason never abandons me, as I have just claimed in order to deceive you.
And when I commit a crime, I know what I am doing: I did not want to do something else!
Standing on the rocks as the hurricane lashed my hair and my cloak, I watched ecstatically as the tempest's might bore down on a ship beneath a starless sky.
I followed all the peripeteias of this drama, from the moment when the vessel dropped anchor until the moment when it was swallowed up, a deadly garment which dragged into the bowels of the sea all those who had put it on as a cloak.
But the moment was approaching when I myself was to be involved in these scenes of nature in tumult.
When the place where the vessel had been struggling clearly showed that it had gone to spend the rest of its days on the ground-floor of the sea, some of those who had been carried off by the waves began to reappear on the surface.
They held one another around the waist, in twos and threes; it was a good way of not saving their lives; for their movements became entangled and they went down like leaking jugs.
What is this army of sea-monsters cleaving the water so rapidly?
There are six of them; their fins are strong and they are forcing their way through the heaving seas.
The sharks soon make an omelette without eggs of all the human beings moving their limbs on the unstable continent; they share it out according to the law of the strongest.
Blood mixes with water, and the water mixes with the blood.
Their wild eyes light up well enough the scene of carnage.
Yet what tumult is that there, yonder on the horizon?
You would take it for a whirlwind approaching!
What flailing!
I see what it is.
A huge female shark is coming to partake of the pate de foie of duck and cold beef.
She is wild with anger; for when she arrives, she is starving.
A struggle ensures between her and the other sharks, fighting over the few palpitating limbs which are floating here and there dumbly on the surface of the red cream.
She snaps and bites to the right and to the left, wounding fatally all that she gets her teeth into.
But there are still three living sharks around her and she is obliged to turn in all directions to foil their tricks.
With increasing emotion, such as he has never felt, the spectator follows this new kind of naval battle from the shore.
He is staring at the courageous female shark, whose teeth are so strong.
He no longer wavers, but shoulders the rifle and, with his customary skill, lodges his second bullet in the gills of one of the sharks as it appeared above the waves.
Two sharks remain who, seeing this, go to it all the more eagerly.
From the top of the rock the man with the briny saliva flings himself into the sea and swims towards the pleasantly-coloured carpet, holding in his hand the steel dagger which he always carries with him.
From now on each shark has an enemy to deal with.
He advances on his weary adversary and, taking his time, buries the sharp blade of his knife in its belly.
The moving citadel easily accounts for her last adversary.
The swimmer is now in the presence of the female shark he has saved.
They look into each other's eyes for some minutes, each astonished to find such ferocity in the other's eyes.
They swim around keeping each other in sight, and each one saying to himself: 'I have been mistaken; here is one more evil than I.’ Then by common accord they glide towards one another underwater, the female shark using its fins, Maldoror cleaving the waves with his arms; and they hold their breath in deep veneration, each one wishing to gave for the first time upon the other, his living portrait.
When they are three yards apart they suddenly and spontaneously fall upon one another like two lovers and embrace with dignity and gratitude, clasping each other as tenderly as brother and sister.
Carnal desire follows this demonstration of friendship.
Two sinewy thighs press tightly against the monster's viscous flesh, like two leeches; and arms and fins are clasped around the beloved object, while their throats and breasts soon form one glaucous mass amid the exhalations of the seaweed; amidst the tempest which was continuing to rage; by the light of lightning-flashes; with the foaming waves for marriage-bed; borne by an undersea current and rolling on top of one another down into the unknown deeps, they joined in a long, chaste and ghastly coupling!...At last I had found one akin to me...from now on I was no longer alone in life...!
Her ideas were the same as mine...I was face to face with my first love!
14  A human body is dragged along in the Seine.
In the circumstances, she flows solemnly.
The swollen body is buoyed up on the water; it disappears beneath the arch of a bridge; but further on it can be seen turning round and round like a mill-wheel and going under now and then.
A boatman hooks it with a rod as it goes by and brings it back to earth.
Before it is brought to the morgue the body is left on the bank for some time to revive it if possible.
A dense crowd gathers around the body.
Those who cannot see because they are at the back push those in front, as much as they can.
Everyone says to himself: 'I would never have drowned myself.'
They pity the young man who has killed himself; they admire him; but they do not imitate him.
And yet he found it quite natural to take his life, judging that there was nothing on earth capable of satisfying him, and aspiring towards higher things.
His face is distinguished, his clothes are expensive.
Is he seventeen yet?
That is dying young!
The stunned crowd continues to gape at him.
Night is coming on.
Everyone moves quickly away.
No one has dared to turn the drowned man over and make him throw up the water which fills his body.
They are afraid of showing any feeling, and no one has moved, they all keep to themselves.
One of them goes away singing discordantly an absurd Tyrolean air; another snaps his fingers like castanets...Troubled by his dark thoughts, Maldoror, on horseback, passes near the place with the speed of lightning.
He sees the drowned man; that is enough.
Immediately, he brings his courser to a halt and gets down from the stirrup.
He lifts up the young man with no sign of squeamishness, making him throw up large amounts of water.
At the thought that this inert body could re revived by his hands he feels his heart leap and under this excellent impression his courage redoubles.
Vain efforts!
Vain efforts, I said, and it is true.
He rubs his temples; he rubs this limb and that; he breathes into his mouth for an hour, pressing his lips against the unknown young man's.
At last he seems to feel a slight beating of the young man's breast.
The drowned man lives!
At this supreme moment several wrinkles could be seen disappearing from the horseman's forehead, making him ten years younger.
But alas!
the wrinkles will return, perhaps tomorrow, perhaps as soon as he has left the banks of the Seine.
Meanwhile the drowned man opens his lusterless eyes and thanks his benefactor with a wan smile; but he is still very weak, and he cannot move at all.
How fine it is to save someone's life!
And how many faults are redeemed by this action!
The bronze-lipped man, preoccupied till then with snatching him from the arms of death, looks at the young man more attentively, and his features are not unfamiliar to him.
He says inwardly that there is not much difference between the blond-haired young man who had just nearly drowned and Holzer.
Look how effusively they embrace one another.
It is nothing!
The man with the pupils of jasper is anxious to maintain a harsh an undemonstrative appearance.
Saying nothing, he takes his friend and puts him up behind him on the saddle, and the steed moves off at a gallop.
O Holzer, who thought you were sensible and strong, do you not see, from your very own example, how difficult it is, in a fit of despair, to maintain the composure you boast of!
I hope you will not cause me such grief again, and I for my part have promised you never to take my life.
15  There are moments in life when man with his louse-ridden hair casts wild staring looks at the green membranes of space; for he believes he hears, somewhere ahead, the ironic hoots of a phantom.
He staggers and bows his head; what he has heard is the voice of conscience.
Then with the speed of a madman he rushes out of the house, takes the first direction his wild state suggests and bounds over the rough plains of the countryside.
But the yellow phantom never loses sight of him, pursuing him with equal speed.
Sometimes on stormy nights, while legions of winged octopi, which look like ravens at a distance, hover above the clouds, moving ponderously towards the cities of men, their mission to warn them to change their conduct; on such nights the dark-eyed pebble sees two things pass by, lit up by the flashes of lightning, one after another; and wiping a furtive tear of compassion which flows from its frozen eye, it shouts out: 'Yes, he certainly deserves it; it is only justice being done.'
Having said that he reassumes his grim attitude and continues to watch, trembling nervously, the manhunt, and the big lips of the shadowy vagina from which immense dark spermatozoids flow unceasingly like a river and then soar up into the lugubrious ether, hiding all nature with the vast span of their bat's wings, including the solitary legions of octopi, now gloomy at the sight of these dumb inexpressible fulgurations.
But all the time the steeplechase between these two tireless runners is going on, and the phantom hurls torrents of fire from his mouth on to the singed back of the human antelope.
If, while he is accomplishing this duty, he comes upon pity trying to bar his way, he gives in disgustedly to her supplications, and allows the man to escape.
The phantom makes a clicking sound with its tongue, as if to tell itself that it is giving up the chase, and then returns to its kennel for the time being.
His is the voice of the condemned: it can be heard even in the furthest layers of space; and when its dreadful shrieking penetrates the human heart, then man would prefer, as the saying goes, to have death as his mother than remorse as his son.
He buries his head up to his neck in the earthy windings of a hole; but conscience volatilizes this ostrich-trick.
The hole disappears, a drop of ether; light appears with its train of beams, like a flight of curlews swooping down on lavender; and man, his eyes open, is face to face with his pale and ghastly self again.
I have seen him making for the sea, climbing a jagged promontory, lashed by the eyebrow of the surge; and flinging himself arrow-like down into the waves.
The miracles is this: the corpse reappeared next day on the surface of the ocean, which had brought this flotsam of flesh back to the shore.
The man freed himself from his body's imprint in the sand, wrung the water from his drenched hair, and silently, stoopingly, returned to the way of life.
Conscience judges our most secret thoughts and acts severely, and is never wrong.
Being powerless to prevent evil, it never ceases to hunt man down like a fox, especially in the hours of darkness.
Avenging eyes, which ignorant science calls meteors, shed a livid flame of light, revolving on themselves as they pass and uttering mysterious words...which he understands!
Then his bed is battered by the convulsions of his body, burdened by the weight of insomnia, and he hears the sinister breathing of night's vague rumours.
The angel of sleep himself, having been struck a mortal blow on the forehead from a stone whose thrower is unknown, abandons his task and reascends towards heaven.
Now this time I am here to defend man; I, the scorner of all virtues; I, whom the Creator has never forgotten since the day when I knocked from their pedestal the annals of heaven where by some infamous intrigue his power and his eternity had consigned, and I applied my four hundred suckers to his armpits, making him utter dreadful cries.
They changed into vipers as his mouth uttered them and went and hid in the undergrowth, among ruined old walls, on the watch by day, on the watch by night.
These cries crawled, endowed with countless rings and a small flat head, and wickedly gleaming eyes.
They have vowed to stop at the sight of human innocence.
But when men in their innocence are out walking in the tangles of the maquis, on steep slopes or on the dunes of the sand, they soon change their mind, something makes them want to go back.
If, that is, there is still time; for, at times, men notice the poison is creeping along the veins of their leg by means of an almost imperceptible bite, before they have had time to turn back and escape into the open.
Thus it is that the Creator, admirably cool even in the presence of the most appalling sufferings, extracts from the very breasts of men the germs which are harmful to those who live on earth.
Imagine his astonishment when he saw Maldoror changed into an octopus coming towards him with his eight monstrous tentacles, each one of them which was a solid lash which could easily have encompassed a planet's circumference.
Caught unawares, he struggled for some moments against the viscous embrace, which was getting tighter and tighter...I feared some foul trick on his part; having fed copiously on the globules of his sacred blood, I suddenly pulled away from his majestic body, and went and hid deep in a cave, which has been my abode since then.
After many fruitless searches, he was still unable to find me.
That was a long time ago; but I think he knows now where I live; he is wary of entering; the two of us live like monarchs of neighbouring lands, who know their respective strengths, cannot defeat one another, and are weary of the useless battles of the past.
He fears me, and I fear him; each of us, though undefeated, has felt the savage blows of his adversary, and it is stalemate.
However, I am ready to take up the struggle again whenever he wishes.
But I advise him not to wait for the right moment for his hidden schemes.
I will always be on guard, I will always keep my eye on him; let him not visit the earth with conscience and its torments.
I have taught men what weapons to use to combat it successfully.
They have not yet grown accustomed to conscience; but you know that, for me, it is as the wind-blown straw.
And I treat it as such.
If I wanted to used the opportunity to indulge in subtle poetic discussion, I would add that a straw is more to me than conscience; for straw is useful for the ox chewing the cud, whereas conscience has only its claws of steel to show.
These claws suffered a painful setback the day they came before me.
As conscience had been sent by the Creator, I did not think fit to allow it to bar my way.
If it had come to me with the modesty and humility proper to its rank (which it ought never to have tried to rise above), then I would have listened to it.
I did not like its pride.
I stretched out my hand and ground its claws with my fingers; they fell as dust to the ground, beneath the pressure of this new kind of mortar.
I stretched out my other hand and pulled off its head.
Then I hunted that woman out of my house with a whip, and I never saw her again.
I have kept her head as a souvenir of my victory...Gnawing the skull of the head which I held in my hand, I stood on one leg, like a heron, beside a precipice on the side of a mountain.
I was seen going down the valley, while the skin of my breast remained as still and calm as the lid of a tomb!
Gnawing the skull of the head which I held in my hand, I swam in the most dangerous gulfs, along by lethal reefs, and I dived deeper than any current, to witness, as a stranger, the combats of sea-monsters; I swam so far the shore that it was out of my piercing sight; and hideous cramps, with their paralysing magnetism, prowled around my limbs as they cleaved the waves with their forceful movements, but they did not dare to approach.
I was seen returning safe and sound to the beach, while the skin of my breast remained as still and calm as the lid of a tomb!
Gnawing the skull of the head which I held in my hands, I mounted the steps of a high tower.
I reached the platform, high above the ground.
I looked out over the countryside and the sea; I looked at the sun, the firmament; kicking hard against the granite which did not give way, I challenged death and divine vengeance with a supreme howl of contempt and then hurled myself like a paving-stone into the mouth of space.
Men heard the painful resounding thud which occurred as the head of conscience, which I had abandoned as I fell, hit the ground.
I was seen descending, slow as a bird, borne on an invisible cloud, and picking up the head, so that I could force it to witness a triple crime, which I was to commit that day, while the skin of my breast remained as still as the lid of a tomb!
Gnawing the skull of the head which I held in my hands, I made for the place where the guillotine is.
Beneath the blade, I placed the smooth and delicate necks of three young girls.
Executor of fine works, I released the rope with the apparent deftness of a lifetime's experience; and the triangular blade, falling obliquely, lopped off three heads which were looking at me sweetly.
Then I put my own head beneath the weighty razor, and the executioner prepared to do his duty.
Thrice the blade slid along the grooves with renewed force; thrice, my material carcass was moved to the very depths, especially at the base of my neck, as when one dreams that one has been crushed to death beneath a collapsing house.
The stunned crowd let me pass and leave the gloomy square.
It saw me opening up with my elbows its undulating waves, carrying the head straight in front of me, while the skin of my breast remained as still and as calm as the lid of a tomb!
I said I wanted to defend man, this time; but I fear my apologia is not an expression of the truth; and consequently I prefer to remain silent.
Mankind will applaud this prudence with gratitude!
16  The time has come to draw in the reins of my inspiration and to stop for a moment along the way, as when one looks at a woman's vagina; it is wise to look over the ground I have covered, and then, having rested my weary limbs, to soar off with a bold leap.
To cover such a stretch in a single breath is by no means easy; one's wings get very tired, flying high, without hope or remorse...No, let us not lead any further the haggard pack of pickaxes and spades across the explosive mines of this impious song.
The crocodile will not change a word of the vomitings from beneath his skull.
So much the worse, if some lurking shade, excited by the praiseworthy object of avenging mankind whom I have so unjustly attacked, stealthily opens the door of my room, and brushing against the wall like a seagull's wing, buries a dagger in the side of the plunderer of heavenly wrecks!
The atoms of clay may just as well be dispersed in this way as any other.
THIRD BOOK   1  Let us recall the names of those imaginary beings of angelic nature, creations of a single mind, who, in the second song, shone with a light of their own.
Once born, they die, like the sparks whose swift extinction on the burning paper the eye can hardly follow.
Leman!...Lohengrin!...Lombano!...Holzer!
for a moment you appeared on my charmed horizon covered in the insignia of youth; but I let you fall back into chaos, like diving bells.
You will never come forth again.
It is enough for me to keep the memory of you; you must give way to other substances, less beautiful perhaps, engendered by the stormy flood of a love resolved not to quench its thirst with the human race.
A hungering love, which would devour itself, if it did not seek sustenance in celestial fictions: creating, in the long run, a pyramid of seraphim more numerous than the insects which swarm in a drop of water, he will weave them into an ellipse which he will whirl around himself.
During this time, the traveler, who has stopped at the sight of a cataract, will, if he looks up, see a human being in the distance, borne towards hell’s depths on a garland of living camellias!
But...silence!
The floating image of the fifth ideal slowly takes shape, like the blurred nuances of the aurora borealis, on the vaporous forefront of my intellect, where it takes on more and more of a precise consistency...Mario and I were going along the strand.
Our horses, with straining necks, rent the membranes of space and struck sparks from the stones on the beach.
The cold blast struck us full in the face, billowing out our cloaks; and the hair of our twin heads was blowing in the wind.
The seagull, by its cries and the beating of its wings, tried to warn us of the possible proximity of the tempest.
It cried: 'Where are they going, at this mad gallop?'
We said nothing; plunged in reverie, we let ourselves be borne along on the wings of this wild career; the fisherman, seeing us pass by, swift as the albatross, and believing that here, fleeing before him, were the two mysterious brothers, so called because they were always together, hastened to make the sign of the cross and hid with his petrified dog behind a huge boulder.
Those who lived on the coast had heard strange things told of these two characters, who would appear on earth amid the clouds in times of great calamity, when a dreadful war threatened to thrust its harpoon into the breasts of two enemy countries, or cholera with its sling was preparing to hurl death and corruption into entire cities.
The oldest beachcombers would frown gravely as they explained that these two phantoms, the vast span of whose black wings everyone had noticed in hurricanes, above sandbanks and reefs, were the spirit of the earth and the spirit of the sea, whose majestic forms would appear in the sky during the great revolutions of nature, and who were joined together by eternal friendship, the rarity and glory of which have astonished the endless cable of generations.
It was said that, flying side by side, like two Andean condors, they liked to hover in concrete circles among the layers of the atmosphere nearest to the sun; that in those regions they lived on the purest essence of light; that with great reluctance they decided to direct their vertical light down towards the orbit in which the fear-stricken human globe deliriously revolves, inhabited by cruel spirits who massacre one another on the fields where battle rages (when they are not treacherously and perfidiously killing one another with the dagger of hatred or ambition in the middle of towns), and who feed on beings as full of life as themselves, but lower down in the scale of existence.
Or when, to urge men to repentance by the strophes of their prophecies, they firmly resolved to swim with huge and powerful strokes towards the sidereal regions where a planet moved amid the thick exhalations of greed, pride, imprecations and sneers which rose like pestilential vapours from its hideous surface; this planet seemed only as big as a bowl, being almost invisible because of the distance; and there, sure enough, there were many opportunities for them to regret bitterly their spurned and misunderstood kindness; and they went and hid in the bowels of volcanoes to converse with the enduring fires of lava which bubble in vats in the center of the earth, or at the bottom of the sea, where their disillusioned gaze could linger pleasantly on the fiercest monsters of the depths, who seemed models of gentleness in comparison with the bastards of mankind.
And then when the propitious darkness of night fell, they would rush out of the porphyry-crested craters and from the undersea currents, leaving behind them the stony chamber-pot where the constipated anus of the human cockatoo strains, till they could no longer make out the shape of the vile planet suspended in space.
Distressed at their fruitless attempt, the spirit of the earth and the spirit of the sea embraced and wept, amid the stars who shared their grief, and beneath God's eye.
Mario and he who galloped by his side were not unaware of the vague and superstitious rumours spread by fishermen as, with doors bolted and windows closed, they whispered to one another around the fireside of an evening; while the night wind, wishing to warm itself, whistles around the straw cabin, shaking with its force the fragile walls, surrounded at the base with shells brought in by the dying undulations of the waves.
We were not speaking.
What have those who love to say to one another?
Nothing.
But our eyes expressed everything.
I told him to pull his cloak around him more and he remarked that my horse was moving too far from his; each of us was as much concerned for the other's life as for his own; we are not laughing.
He tries to force a smile.
But I notice hat his face is deeply lined, and bears the terrible weight of reflection, which is constantly struggling with the sphinxes who, with their squinting eyes, baffle mortal intelligence in all its anguished endeavours.
Seeing that his attempts are futile, he averts his eyes and bites his earthly rein, raging and foaming at the mouth and looking towards the horizon, which flees at our approach.
In turn, I try to remind him of his gilded youth, which need only advance like a queen in the palace of pleasures; but he notices how difficult it is for my thin mouth to utter these words, how the years of my own spring have passed, sad and glacial, like an implacable dream passing over banquet tables, satin beds where love's pale priestess sleeps, paid with the glitter of gold, the bitter pleasures of dis-solitude and the torches of sorrow.
Seeing that my attempts are futile, I am not surprised that I cannot make him happy; the Almighty appears with his instruments of torture in the resplendent aureole of his horror.
I avert my eyes and look towards the horizon which flees at our approach...Our horses were galloping along the shores, as if they fled the eyes of men...Mario is younger than I; the dampness of the weather and the salt water which spurts up on us bring cold to his lips.
I said to him: 'Take care!...Take care!...close your lips on one another; do you not see the sharp claws of the cold which will chap your skin, furrowing it with its smarting wounds?'
He fixed his eye on my brow and answered with the movements of his tongue: 'Yes, I see these green claws, but I will not alter the natural position of my mouth to get rid of them.
Since this appears to be the will of Providence, I wish to submit to it.
Its will could have been less harsh.'
And I exclaimed: 'I admire this noble revenge.'
I wanted to tear out my hair, but he forbade me with such a stern look that I obeyed him respectfully.
It was getting late, the eagle was returning to its nest amid the jagged mountain rocks.
He said: 'I will lend you my cloak to protect you from the cold.
I do not need mine.'
I replied: 'Woe to you, if you do as you say.
I do not want another to suffer instead of me, and especially not you.'
He did not answer, because I was right; but I began to comfort him, because of the violent and hasty tone in which I had spoken.
Our horses were galloping along the shore, as if they fled from the eyes of men...I looked up, like the prow of a ship borne upon a huge wave and I said to him: 'Are you crying?
Tell me, king of the snows and the fog.
I see no tears on your face, lovely as the cactus flower, and your eyes are dry as the bed of the stream; but in the depths of your eyes I see a blood-filled vessel in which your innocence boils, bitten in the neck by a scorpion of the largest kind.
A violent wind blows down on the fire beneath the cauldron, spreading the dark flames outside your sacred eyeball.
I moved close to you, my hair near your rosy brow, and I smelt burning, because my hair had been singed.
Close your eyes; for, if you do not, your face, burning like the lava of the volcano, will fall in ashes into the palm of my hand.'
And he turned towards me again, heedless of the reins he was holding in his hands, gazing at me tenderly, raising and lowering his lily eyelids like the ebb and flow of the sea.
He wished to reply to my bold question, and did so as follows: 'Do not worry about me.
Just as the mists of rivers drift over hillsides and on reaching the top rise into the atmosphere to form clouds; so have your anxieties on my account increased imperceptibly without any reasonable grounds, forming the illusory shape of a desolate mirage in your imagination.
I assure you there is no fire in my eyes, although I feel as if my skull had been plunged into a basin of burning coals.
How could my innocent flesh be burning in the cauldron, since I can hear only weak and indistinct cries which are but the moans of the wind passing over our heads.
A scorpion could not have taken up residence and fixed his sharp pincers in my torn sockets; rather I feel as if there are more powerful tentacles grinding my optic nerves.
Yet I am of your opinion, that the blood which fills the cauldron was extracted from my veins by an invisible torturer as I slept at night.
I waited a long time for you, beloved son of the ocean; my sleep-weakened arms engaged in vain combat with the One who had stolen into the vestibule of my house...Yes, I feel my soul padlocked in the bolt of my body and it cannot get out and flee from the shores lashed by human waves, no longer witness to the livid pack of miseries relentlessly pursuing the human lizards over the sloughs and pits of immense despair.
But I shall not complain.
I received life as a wound, and I have forbidden suicide to heal the scar.
I want the Creator to contemplate the gaping crevasse for every hour of his eternity.
That is the punishment I inflict on him.
Our coursers slow down, their bodies trembling like the hunter set upon by peccaries.
They must not start listening to what we are saying.
By dint of attention, their intelligence would increase and they might understand us.
Woe to them!
for they would suffer more.
Just think, in fact, of the boars of mankind: does it not seem that the degree of intelligence which separates them from other beings has only been granted at the irremediable price of incalculable suffering?
Follow my example and dig your spur into your courser's side.
'Our horses were galloping along the shore, as if they fled the eyes of men.'
2  Behold the madwoman dancing along, with a vague memory of something in her mind.
Children chase after her and throw stones at her, as if she were a blackbird.
She brandishes a stick and makes as if to chase them, then continues on her way.
She has left a shoe behind her on the path, and does not notice it.
Long spiders' legs move on her nape; they are none other than her hair.
Her face no longer looks like a human face, and she bursts into fits of laughter, like a hyena.
She utters scraps of sentences in which, when they are put together, few would be able to find any clear meaning.
Her dress has holes in several places and moves jerkily to show her bony and mud-bespattered legs.
She moves forward in a daze, her youth, her illusions and her past happiness, which she glimpses through her ruined mind's haze, all swept along like a poplar leaf by the whirl of unconscious powers.
She has lost her former grace and beauty; the way she walks is mean and low, her breath reeks of gin.
If men were happy on this earth, it would surprise us.
The madwoman reproaches no one, she is too proud to complain, and she will die without revealing her secret to those who are interested in her, but whom she has forbidden even to speak to her.
Children chase after her and throw stones at her, as if she were a blackbird.
She has dropped a roll of paper from her breast.
A stranger picks it up, shuts himself in his room all night, and reads the manuscript, which contains the following: 'After many years of barrenness, Providence blessed me with a child, a girl.
For three whole days I knelt in churches and never ceased thanking Him who had at last granted my wishes.
With my own milk I suckled the child, who meant more to me than my own life.
She was endowed with all the good qualities of body and soul, and she grew quickly.
She would say to me: "I would like to have a little sister to play with; ask the good Lord to send me one; and I, in return, will wreathe a garland of violets, mint, and geraniums."
My answer was to sit her on my lap, press her to my breast and kiss her lovingly.
She was already interested in animals and used to ask me why it was that the swallow merely brushed against the cottages of men with its wings, without ever daring to enter.
But I would put my finger on my mouth, as if to tell her to keep silent on this grave questions, the rudiments of which I did not wish to explain to her and perhaps over-excite her childish imagination with too vivid a sensation; and I was anxious to change the subject, which is a painful one for every being who belongs to the race which has imposed its unjust dominion on all the other animals of creation.
Whenever she spoke to me of the graves in the cemetery, saying how there one could breathe the pleasant perfumes of cypresses and immortelles, I was careful not to contradict her; but I said to her that it was the town where the birds lived, that they sang there from morning till dusk, that the graves were their nests where, lifting up the gravelids, they slept at night with their family.
It was I who sewed all the pretty little clothes she wore, as well as the lace-dress, with its thousand arabesques, which was reserved for Sundays.
In winter, she had her special place by the hearth; for she considered herself an important person.
In summer, the meadows felt the gentle pressure of her steps when she ventured out with her silk net on the end of a rush, chasing the wild, free hummingbird, and butterflies with their frustrating, zig-zagging motion.
"What have you been doing, you little scamp, your soup has been waiting for you for over and hour?"
But she exclaimed as she flung her arms around my neck that she would never go back there.
The next day she was off again, skipping over the daisies and the mignonettes; among the sunbeams and the whirling flight of the ephemera; knowing only life's prismatic glass, none of its rancour yet; glad to be no bigger than the bluetit; innocently teasing the warbler, which does not sing as well as the nightingale; slyly putting her tongue out at the nasty raven which was looking at her in a fatherly way; graceful as a young cat in her movements.
I was not to enjoy her company for much longer; the time was coming near when she would unexpectedly have to say goodbye to life's enchantments, abandoning forever the company of turtledoves, grouse and greenfinches, the babbling of the tulip and the anemone, the counsel of the marsh-grass, the sharp wit of the frogs, the coolness of the streams.
I was told what happened; for I was not present at the event of which my daughter's death was the result.
If I had been, I would have defended that angel at the cost of my blood...Maldoror was passing with his bulldog; he sees a young girl sleeping in the shade of a plane-tree, and at first he took her for a rose.
It is impossible to say which came first to his mind: the sight of this young girl, or the resolution which followed.
He undresses rapidly, like a man who knows what he is going to do.
Stark naked, he flung himself upon the girl, lifting her dress to commit an assault upon modesty...in broad daylight...that will not worry him, you may be sure.
But let us not dwell on this impure act.
Discontented in mind, he hurriedly gets dressed again, casts a prudent glance towards the dusty pathway where no one is walking, and orders the bulldog to strangle a blood-bespattered young girl with a snap of his jaws.
He points out to the mountain-dog the place where the suffering victim is breathing and shrieking, and withdraws from the scene, not wishing to be present as the sharp teeth enter the pink veins.
It seemed to the dog that the execution of this order was harsh.
He thought he was being asked to do what had already been done, and contented himself, this monstrous snouted wolf, with violating in turn the virginity of this delicate child.
From her torn belly the blood flows again along her legs, over the meadow...Her moans join the whining of the animal.
The young girl gives him the golden cross which adorned her neck, so that he would spare her.
She had not dared to show it to the wild eye of him who had first thought of taking advantage of the weakness of her age.
But the dog knew well that if he disobeyed his master, a knife-thrust from his sleeve would open up his entrails without a word of warning.
Maldoror (how revolting to pronounce the name!)
heard the agonized cries of pain, and was astonished that the victim was so tenacious of life that she was not already dead.
He approaches the sacrificial altar and sees the behaviour of his bulldog, gratifying his base instincts, rising above the young girl, as a shipwrecked man raises his head above the waves.
He kicks him and cuts out one of his eyes.
The maddened bulldog flees across the countryside, dragging after him along a stretch of the road, which though it is short, is still too long, the body of the young girl which is hanging from him and which only comes free as a result of the jerky movements of the fleeing dog; but he is afraid of attacking his master, who will never set eyes on him again.
He takes an American penknife from his pocket, consisting of twelve blades which can be put to different uses.
He opens the angular claws of this steel hydra; and armed with a scalpel of the same kind, seeing that the green of the grass had not yet disappeared beneath all the blood which had been shed, he prepares, without blenching, to dig his knife courageously into the unfortunate child's vagina.
From the widened hole he pulls out, one after one, the inner organs; the guts, the lungs, the liver and at last the heart itself are torn from their foundations and dragged through the hideous hole into the light of day.
The sacrificer notices that the young girl, a gutted chicken, has long been dead.
He stops his ravages, which had gone on until then with increasing eagerness, and lets the corpse sleep, again, in the shade of the plane-tree.
The knife was picked up where it had been left, a few steps away.
A shepherd, a witness of the crime whose author was never discovered, waited until long afterwards before telling the tale, until he had made sure that the criminal had reached the frontier and that he no longer had to fear the revenge which would be taken on him if he told the truth.
I pitied the madman who had committed this appalling crime which the legislators had not foreseen and for which there were no precedents.
I pitied him, because it is likely that his reason deserted him as he went to work with the twelve-bladed knife, ripping the viscera from top to bottom.
I pity him because, if he was not mad, his shameful behaviour shows that he must be harbouring intense hatred against his fellow-beings, to swoop so savagely down on to the flesh and arteries of a harmless child, my daughter.
I was present at the burial of the last remains, silently resigned; and every day I come and pray over a grave.'
When he has finished reading this, the stranger's strength fails him and he faints.
He comes to, and burns the manuscript.
He had forgotten this memory of his youth (how habit dulls the memory!
); and after an absence of twenty years, he had returned to this fateful land.
He will not buy a bulldog!...He will not converse with shepherds!...He will not sleep in the shade of plane-trees!...Children chase after her and throw stones at her, as if she were a blackbird.
3  Tremdall, for the last time, has touched the hand of him who is deliberately going away, always fleeing onwards, the image of man always pursuing him!
The wandering Jew says to himself that he would not be fleeing thus if the sceptre of the earth belonged to the race of crocodiles.
Tremdall, standing in the valley, puts his hand before his eyes to concentrate the solar rays and make his sight more penetrating, while the other touches the breast of space with his horizontal unmoving hand.
Leaning forward, the statue of friendship, his eyes mysterious as the sea, he contemplates the traveler's garters as (with the aid of a metal walking stick) they make their way up the hillside.
The earth seems to give way beneath his feet and even if he wished, he could not hold back his tears and his feelings: 'He is far away; I see his form making its way along a narrow path.
Where is he going, with that slow and heavy step?
He does not know himself...Yet I am convinced that I am not asleep: who is it approaching, and going to meet Maldoror?
How huge the dragon is...bigger than an oak.
You would think that its whitish wings, joined firmly to its body, had sinews of steel, such was the ease with which they cleft the air.
Its body begins with a tiger's head and ends in a long serpent's tail.
It was not accustomed to seeing such things.
What is that on his brow?
I see a word there, written in a symbolic language which I cannot decipher.'
With one last wing-beat, he repaired to a place near him whose tone of voice I know.
He said to him: 'I have been waiting for you, as you for me.
The hour is come.
Here I am.
Read on my brow my name written in hieroglyphic signs.'
Scarcely had he seen the enemy coming than Maldoror changed into an immense eagle, and prepared for the combat, contentedly clacking his hooked beak, by which he means that he will take it upon himself alone to eat the dragon's lower parts.
Now they are describing circles of diminishing concentricity, as each weighs up the other's strengths.
They are wise to do so.
The dragon seems to me to be stronger; I should like him to gain victory over the eagle.
I shall experience great emotions at this spectacle in which a part of my being is involved.
Powerful dragon, I will, if necessary, spur you on with my shouts.
For it is in the eagle's interest that he should be defeated.
Why are they waiting before they attack?
I am in mortal terror.
Come on, dragon, you attack first.
You have just landed a sharp blow with your claw: that is not too bad.
I can assure you that the eagle has felt it; the wind blows away his beautiful, blood-stained feathers.
Oh!
the eagle has plucked out one of your eyes with his beak, whereas you have only torn off his skin; you should have been looking out for that.
Bravo!
take your revenge, and smash one of his wings; there is no denying how strong and sharp your tiger's teeth are.
If you could only approach the eagle as he whirls in space and swoops down towards earth.
I notice that even when he is falling you are wary of this eagle.
He is on the ground, he will not be able to get up again.
The sight of all these gaping wounds intoxicates me.
Fly around him at ground level and finish him off, if you can, with the blows of your scaly serpent's tail.
Courage, my fine dragon.
Dig your powerful claws deep into him, and let blood mix with blood to form streams in which no water flows.
It is easier said than done.
The eagle has just devised a new strategic plan of defence, occasioned by the unfortunate risks of this memorable struggle; he is wise.
He is sitting solidly in an unshakeable position, on his remaining wing, on his haunches, and on his tail, which had previously served as a rudder.
He defies attacks even more extraordinary than those which have hitherto been flung at him.
Now he turns with the speed of the tiger, and does not seem to flag; now he is on his back with his two strong claws in the air, coolly and ironically weighing up his adversary.
I must know who the victor will be; the combat cannot go on for ever.
I am thinking of the consequences!
The eagle is fearsome; he is making enormous leaps which shake the earth, as if he were about to take off; yet he knows that is impossible.
The dragon does not trust appearances.
He believes that at any moment the eagle will attack him on the side where he has lost his eye...O wretch that I am!
This is what happens.
How could the dragon have let himself be caught by the breast?
In vain he uses his strength and his cunning.
I see that the eagle, clinging to him with all his limbs like a bloodsucker, is burying his beak, and indeed his entire neck, deeper and deeper in the dragon's belly.
Only his body can be seen.
He appears perfectly at ease; he is in no hurry to come out.
No doubt he is looking for something, while the tiger-headed dragon utters groans which awaken the forests.
Behold the eagle, as he comes out of that cave.
Eagle, how revolting you are!
You are redder than a pool of blood!
Though you hold a palpitating heart in your beak, you are so covered with wounds that you can hardly stand upright on your feathered claws; and, without relaxing the tight grip of your beak, you are staggering beside the dragon which is dying in the throes of frightful pain.
Victory has been hard to achieve; no matter, you have won it; one must at least tell the truth...You are acting according to the laws of reason as, moving away from the dragon's corpse, you divest yourself of the eagle's form.
And so, Maldoror, you are the victor!
And so, Maldoror, you have defeated Hope!
From this moment, despair will prey on your purest substance!
From this moment you will return, with a firm step, to your career of evil!
Although I have become, so to speak, dulled to suffering, the last blow you struck the dragon did not fail to have its effect on me.
Judge for yourself if I am suffering!
But you frighten me.
See, see that man fleeing in the distance.
The busy foliage of malediction has grown on him, excellent soil; he is accursed and accursed.
Where are your sandals taking you?
Where are you going, tottering forward like a sleepwalker on a roof?
May your perverse destiny be fulfilled!
Maldoror, adieu!
