Fever has taken hold of this delicate body.
He fears the consequences his words will have; the wretch sneaks away, frustrated at not having been able to converse longer with the child.
When even in mature years it is so difficult to master our passions, poised between good and evil, how hard it must be for so inexperienced a mind?
How much more relative energy is required!
The child will escape at the price of three days in bed.
May it please heaven that his mother’s presence should restore peace to this sensitive flower, the frail exterior of a fine soul!
7  In a flowery grove the hermaphrodite sleeps a deep, heavy sleep, drenched in his tears.
The moon’s disc has come clear of the mass of clouds, and with its pale beams caresses his gentle adolescent face.
His features express the most virile energy as well as the grace of a celestial virgin.
Nothing about him seems natural, not even the muscles of his body, which clear their way across the harmonious contours of a feminine form.
He has one arm around his head and another around his breast, as if to restrain the beating of a heart which can make no confidences, laden with the heavy burden of an eternal secret.
Tired of life and ashamed of walking among beings who are not like him, he has given his soul up to despair and wanders alone, like the beggar of the valley.
By what means does he live?
Though he does not realize it, compassionate souls are watching over him near at hand, and they will not abandon him: he is so good!
he is so resigned!
Sometimes, he willingly talks with sensitive people, without touching their hands, keeping at a safe distance for fear of an imaginary danger.
If he is asked why he has chosen solitude as his companion, he raises his eyes towards the sky, scarcely restraining tears of reproach against Providence; but he does not reply to this tactless question, which fills his eyes, otherwise white as snow, with the redness of the morning rose.
If the conversation goes on, he becomes anxious, looks around him in all directions as if he is trying to flee from an approaching enemy, quickly waves good-bye and moves off on the wings of his reawakened sense of shame to disappear into the forest.
he is generally taken for a madman.
One day four masked men, acting on orders, fell upon him and bound him tightly, so that he could only move his legs.
The rough thongs of the whip crashed down on his back as they told him to make his way without delay to the Bicetre road.
He started to smile as the blows rained down on him and spoke to them with such feeling and intelligence of the many human sciences he had studied which indicated great erudition in one who had not yet crossed the threshold of youth, and of the destiny of mankind fully revealing the poetic nobility of his soul, that his attackers, chilled to the blood with fear at the act which they had committed, untied his broken limbs, and falling at his knees, begged forgiveness, which was granted, and went away, showing signs of a veneration which is not ordinarily accorded to men.
Since this event, which was much spoken of, everyone has guessed his secret; but they pretend not to know it so as not to increase his suffering; and the government has granted him an honorary pension, to make him forget that there was a moment when, without preliminary investigation, they had wanted to put him by force into a lunatic asylum.
He keeps half of the money for his own use; the rest he gives to the poor.
When he sees a man and a woman walking along a path shaded by plane-trees, he feels his body splitting from top to bottom into two parts, and each new part going to embrace one of the walkers; but it is only a hallucination, and reason soon takes over again.
That is why he mixes neither with men nor with women; for his excessively strong sense of shame, which arose with the idea that he was only a monster, prevents him from giving his burning love to anyone.
He would consider it self-profanation, and profanation of others.
His pride repeats this axiom to him: ‘Let each remain among his own kind.’ His pride, I say, because he fears that by sharing his life with a man or a woman, he will sooner or later be reproached, as if it were a dreadful crime, for the conformation of his body.
So he shelters behind his self-esteem, offended by this impious supposition, which comes from him alone, and he persists in remaining alone and without consolation amidst his torments.
There in a flowery grove the hermaphrodite sleeps a deep heavy sleep, drenched in his tears.
The birds, waking, contemplate, enraptured, this melancholy figure, through the branches of the trees, and the nightingale will not sing its crystal-toned cavatinas.
The presence of the unhappy hermaphrodite has made the wood as august as a tomb.
Oh wanderer mislead by your spirit of adventure to leave your father and mother from the earliest age; by the sufferings you have undergone from thirst, in the desert; by the homeland you are perhaps seeking, after long wanderings as an outlaw in strange lands; by your steed, your faithful friend, who with you has borne exile and the inclemency of the climes which your roaming disposition has brought you through; by the dignity which is given man by journeys through distant lands and unexplored seas, amid the polar ice-floes, or under the torrid desert sun, do not touch with your hand, like a tremor of the breeze, these ringlets of hair on the ground among the grass.
Stand back several steps, and you will be acting more wisely.
This hair is sacred; it is the wish of the hermaphrodite himself; he does not wish this hair, perfumed by the mountain breeze, to be kissed religiously by human lips, nor his brow, which shines at this moment like the stars which has fallen from its orbit, passing through space and on to this majestic brow, which it surrounds with its diamantine brightness, like a halo.
Night, casting off sadness, puts on all its charms to fete the sleep of this incarnation of modesty, this perfect image of angelic innocence: the gentle humming of insects is less audible.
The branches of trees bend their bushy heights over him to protect him from the dew, and the breeze, plucking the strings of its melodious harp, sends it joyous harmonies through the universal silence towards those closed eyelids which are dreaming that they are present at the cadenced concert of the spheres.
He dreams that he is happy, that his bodily nature has changed; or that at least he has flown off on a dark-red cloud towards another sphere inhabited by beings whose nature is the same as his!
He dreams that flowers are dancing around him like huge mad garlands, imbuing him with their suave perfumes, while he sings a hymn of love in the arms of a human being of magical beauty.
But what his arms are clasping is only twilight mist; and when he awakes, his arms will clasp it no longer.
Do not awaken, hermaphrodite; do not awaken yet, I implore you.
Why will you not believe me?
Sleep...sleep on for ever.
May your breast rise as you pursue the chimerical hope of happiness.
I grant you that; but do not open your eyes.
Ah!
do not open your eyes!
I want to leave you thus, so that I do not have to witness your awakening.
Perhaps, one day, with the help of a voluminous book, I will tell your story in moving words, appalled by all that it contains and by the moving lessons to be drawn from it.
Till now, I have not been able to; for every time that I wanted to, copious tears would fall on to the paper, and my fingers would tremble, but not from old age.
But now I want to have the courage at last.
I am shocked that my nerves are no stronger than a woman’s and that I faint like a girl every time I reflect on your great misery.
Sleep...sleep on; but do not open your eyes.
Ah!
do not open your eyes!
Adieu, hermaphrodite: I will not fail to pray every day for you (if it were for myself, I should not pray).
May peace be with you!
8  When I hear a soprano uttering her vibrant and melodious notes, my eyes are filled with a hidden flame, flashes of pain shoot across them, and the burst of alarm-bell and cannonade resound in my ears.
What can be the reason for this deep loathing of everything related to man?
If those harmonies are played on the chords of an instrument, I listen in delight to the pearly notes wafting in cadence through the elastic waves of the atmosphere.
Sense conveys to my hearing an impression so sweet as to melt nerves and thought.
The magic poppies of an ineffable drowsiness envelop, like a veil filtering the light of day, the active power of my senses and tenacious strength of my imagination.
The story is told that I was born in the arms of deafness!
In the first years of my childhood, I could not hear what was said to me.
When with the greatest difficulty, they had taught me to speak, it was not until after I had read on a sheet of paper what someone had written that I could in turn communicate the thread of my ideas.
One day, woeful day, I had grown in beauty and innocence.
Everyone admired the intelligence and goodness of the divine youth.
Many a conscience blushed inwardly when it contemplated those clear feature in which his soul was enshrined.
No one approached him without veneration, for they had noticed in his eyes the look of an angel.
But no, I knew only too well that the happy faces of youth would not flower perpetually, wreathed in capricious garlands, on hi modest and noble brow, which all mothers used to kiss with frenzied devotion.
It was beginning to seem to me that the universe, with its starry vault of impassable and tormentingly mysterious globes, was not perhaps the most imposing thing I had dreamt of.
And so, one day, tired of trudging along the steep path on this earthly journey, trudging along like a drunkard through the dark catacombs of life, I slowly raised my splenetic eyes, ringed with bluish circles, towards the concavity of the firmament and I, who was so young, dared to penetrate the mysteries of heaven!
Not finding what I was seeking, I lifted my eyes higher, and higher still, until I saw a throne made of human excrement and gold, on which was sitting--with idiotic pride, his body draped in a shroud of unwashed hospital linen--he who calls himself the Creator!
He was holding in his hand the rotten body of a dead man, carrying it in turn from his eyes to his nose and from his nose to his mouth; and once it reached his mouth, one can guess what he did with it.
His feet were dipped in a huge pool of boiling blood, on the surface of which two or three cautious heads would suddenly rise up like tapeworms in a chamber-pot, and as suddenly submerge again, swift as an arrow.
A kick on the bone of the nose was the familiar reward for any infringement of regulations occasioned by the need to breathe a different atmosphere; for after all, these men were not fish.
Though amphibious at best, they were swimming underwater in this vile liquid!...until, finding his hands empty, the Creator, with the first two claws of his foot, would grab another diver by the neck, as if with pincers, and lift him into the air, out of the reddish slime, delicious sauce.
And this one was treated in the same way as his predecessor.
First he ate his head, then his legs and arms, and, last of all the trunk, until there was nothing left; for he crunched the bones as well.
And so it continues, for all the hours of his eternity.
Sometimes, he would shout: 'I have created you, so I have the right to do whatever I like to you.
You have done nothing to me, I do not deny it.
I am making you suffer for my own pleasure.'
And he would continue his savage meal, moving his lower jaw, which in turn moved his brain-bespattered beard.
Oh reader, does not this last- mentioned detail make your mouth water?
Cannot whoever wishes also eat brains just the same, which taste just as good and just as fresh, caught less than a quarter of an hour before in the lake--the brains of a fish?
My limbs paralysed, utterly dumb, I contemplated this sight for some time.
Thrice I nearly keeled over, like a man in the throes of an emotion which is too strong for him; thrice I managed to keep my feet.
No fibre of my body was still; I was trembling like the lava inside the volcano.
Finally, my breast so constricted that I could not breathe the life-giving air quickly enough, my lips opened slightly and I uttered a cry...a cry so piercing...that I heard it!
The shackles of my ears were suddenly broken, my ear-drum cracked as the shock of the sounding mass of air which I had expelled with such energy, and a strange phenomenon took place in the organ condemned by nature.
I had just heard a sound!
A fifth sense had developed in me!
But what pleasure could I have derived from such a realization?
Since then, no human sound has reached my ears without bringing with it the feeling of grief which pity for great injustice arouses.
Whenever anyone spoke to me, I remembered what I had seen one day above the visible spheres, and the translation of my stifled feelings into a violent yell, the tone of which was identical to that of my fellow-beings!
I could not answer him; for the tortures inflicted on man's weakness in that hideous red sea passed before my eyes roaring like scorched elephants and brushing with their wings against my singed hair.
Later, when I knew mankind better, this feeling of pity was coupled with intense rage against this tiger-like stepmother whose hardened children know only how to curse and do evil.
The brazen lie!
they say that evil is the exception among them!
That was long ago; since then I have not spoken a word to anyone.
Oh you, whoever you may be, when you are beside me, do not let any sound escape your vocal cords; do not with your larynx strive to outdo the nightingale; and, for yourself, do not on any account attempt to make your soul known to me by means of language.
Maintain a religious silence, uninterrupted by the least sound.
Cross your hands humbly on your breast, and lower your eyelids.
I have told you this, and since that vision revealed to me the supreme truth, too many nightmares have sucked my throat, by day and by night, for me to have any courage left to renew, even in thought, the sufferings I underwent in that infernal hour, the memory of which remorselessly pursues me.
Oh!
when you hear the avalanche of snow falling from the high mountain; the lioness in the barren desert lamenting the disappearance of its cubs; the tempest accomplishing its destined purpose; the condemned man groaning in prison on the eve of his execution; and the savage octopus telling the waves of the sea of his victory over swimmers and the shipwrecked, then you have to acknowledge it: are not these majestic voices finer than the sniggering of men?
9  There exists an insect which men feed at their own expense.
They owe it nothing; but they fear it.
This insect, which does not like wine but prefers blood, would, if its legitimate needs were not satisfied, be capable, by means of an occult power, of becoming big as an elephant and crushing men like ears of corn.
And one has to see how respected it is, how it is surrounded with fawning veneration, how it is held in high esteem, above all the other animals of creation.
The head is given it as its throne, and it digs its claws solemnly into the roots of the hair.
Later, when it is fat and getting on in age, it is killed, following the custom of an ancient race, to prevent it from suffering the hardships of old age.
It is given a magnificent hero's funeral, with prominent citizens bearing the coffin on their shoulders straight to the grave.
Above the damp earth which the grave-digger is shrewdly moving with his spade, multicoloured sentences are combined on the immortality of the soul, the emptiness of life, the incomprehensible will of Providence, and the marble closes for ever on this life, filled with such toil, and which is now but a corpse.
The crowd disperses, and night soon covers the walls of the cemetery with shadows.
But be consoled, human beings, for this grievous loss.
Look at his countless family, which he so freely bestowed on you and which is advancing, that your despair should be less bitter, should be, so to speak, sweetened by these surly abortions, which will later grow into magnificent lice of remarkable beauty monsters of wise demeanour.
Under its maternal wing it has incubated several dozen beloved eggs in your hair, dried by the unremitting suction of these fearsome strangers.
And now the time has come for the eggs to hatch.
Do not fear, these youthful philosophers will soon grow, in the course of this ephemeral life.
They will grow so much that they will soon make you aware of it with their claws and their suckers.
And yet you still do not know why they do not devour the bones of your head, why they are satisfied with ceremoniously extracting the quintessence of your blood.
Wait a moment and I will tell you: it is because they do not have the strength.
You may be sure that if their jaws conformed to the measure of their infinite desires, your brain, the retinas of your eyes, your spinal column and all your body would be consumed.
Like a drop of water.
Take a microscope and examine a louse at work on a beggar's head; you will be surprised.
Unfortunately these plunderers of long hair are tiny.
They would be no good for conscription; for they are not the size which the law requires.
They belong to the short-legged lilliputian world, and the blind do not hesitate to classify them among the infinitesimally small.
But woe to the sperm-whale that fought against a louse!
Despite his size, he would be devoured in a trice.
Not even his tail would remain to tell the news.
An elephant can be stroked.
But not a louse.
I would not advise you to try this dangerous experiment.
Beware, if you have a hairy hand, or even if it is only flesh and bone.
Your fingers have had it, they are beyond hope.
They will crack as if they were on the rack.
By a strange enchantment, the skin disappears.
Lice are incapable of doing as much evil as their imagination contemplates.
If you find a louse, go on your way, do not lick its papilla with your tongue.
An accident would happen to you.
Cases have been known.
Never mind, I am already content with the amount of harm it has done you, O human race; but I would like it to do you even more harm.
How much longer will you keep up the worm-eaten cult of this god, who is insensible to your prayers and to the generous sacrifices that you offer him as expiatory holocaust?
Can you not see that this horrible manitou is not grateful for the bowls of blood and brains which you lay on his altars, piously decorated with garlands of flowers?
He is not grateful...for earthquakes and tempests have been raging uninterruptedly since the beginning of all things.
And nonetheless (this is a spectacle worthy of observations), the more indifferent he is, the more you admire him.
It is clear that you are wary of his attributes, which he hides; and your reasoning is based on the consideration that a divinity of such extreme power can only show such disdain for the faithful who obey the commandments of his religion.
For that reason different gods exist in each country: here, the crocodile, there, the prostitute.
But when it comes to the louse, of holy name, the nations of the earth, one and all kissing the chains of their slavery, kneel together in the august sanctuary before the pedestal of this shapeless and bloodthirsty idol.
Any people that did not obey its own groveling instincts and made as if to rebel, would sooner or later disappear from the face of the earth like an autumn leaf, destroyed by the vengeance of the inexorable god.
O louse of the shriveled-up eyes, as long as rivers pour their waters into the depths of the sea; as long as the stars gravitate along their fixed orbits; as long as the dumb emptiness has no horizon; as long as humanity tears its own sides apart with disastrous wars; as long as divine justice hurls its avenging thunderbolts down on this selfish globe; as long as man denies his creator and, not without reason, snaps his fingers at him, combining insolence and disdain, your reign over the universe will be assured, and your dynasty will extend its influence throughout the centuries.
I salute you, rising sun, heavenly liberator, you, the invisible enemy of man.
Continue to tell lewdness to couple with in impure embraces and swear to him with oaths not written in powder that she will be his faithful lover until eternity.
Kiss from time to time the dress of the great unchaste, in memory of the important services she does not fail to render you.
If she did not seduce man with her lascivious breasts, it is improbable that you would exist, you, the product of this reasonable and logical coupling.
O son of lewdness!
tell you mother that is she abandons man's bed and thenceforward walks a solitary way, alone and without support, she will put your existence at risk.
And let her fragrant womb, which has borne you for nine months, be stirred at the thought of the dangers which her tender fruit, so gentle and peaceful, but already cold and savage, would run as a result.
Lewdness, queen of empires, keep before my hate-filled eyes the sight of your starving offspring's imperceptible growth.
To achieve this goal, you know that you have only to stick more closely to man's sides.
And you may do this without compromising modesty, since both of you have been married for a long time.
As for me, if I may be permitted to add a few words to this hymn of glorification, I will say that I have had a grave built, forty square leagues in area, and of a corresponding depth.
There, in its foul virginity, lies a living mine of lice.
It fills the bottom of the pit, and thence it spreads out in wide thick veins in all directions.
This is how I built this mine.
I pulled a female louse out of the hair of man.
I slept with it for three consecutive nights, then I threw it into the pit.
Destiny saw to it that human fecundation, which would have been impossible in other similar cases, was successful this time; and after a few days, thousands of monsters, crawling in a compact mass of matter, first saw the light of day.
This hideous mass became more and more immense in time, acquiring the liquid property of mercury, and branched out into several groups which at the moment sustain themselves by eating one another (the birth-rate being higher than the mortality- rate), unless I throw them as fodder a new-born bastard whose mother wished its death, or the arm of some young girl which I cut off during the night, after drugging her with chloroform.
Every fifteen years, the generations of lice which live off men diminish noticeably and infallibly predict the approaching era of their complete destruction.
For man, more intelligent than his enemy, has managed to conquer him.
Then, with an infernal spade which increases my strength, I extract blocks of lice from this inexhaustible mine, break them up with axe-blows, and transport into the arteries of cities.
There they dissolve on contact with human temperature as in the first days of their formation in the winding galleries of the underground mine, they dig down into the gravel and spread like little streams into the dwelling-places of men like malign spirits.
The watchdog gives a low bark, for it seems to him that a legion of unknown beings is penetrating the pores of the walls, bringing terror to the bed of sleep.
Perhaps, at least once in your life, you have heard one of these wailing, prolonged barks.
With his feeble eyes he tries to pierce the darkness of the night; for all this passes the understanding of his dog-brain.
This humming irritates him, he feels he has been betrayed.
Millions of the enemy swoop down thus on each city, like clouds of locusts.
That will be enough for fifteen years.
They will fight against man, and inflict sharp wounds on him.
After this period, I will send others.
When I am smashing the block of living matter, it may happen that one fragment is denser than another.
Its atoms are striving furiously to break off from the agglomeration and go and torment mankind; but the cohesion of the whole is such that it resists all their efforts.
In a supreme convulsion, they make such an effort that the block, unable to scatter its living elements, soars right into the air as if set off by gunpowder, then falls again, and buries itself firmly in the ground.
Sometimes, a pensive peasant sees an aerolith vertically rending space, moving downwards towards a cornfield.
He does not know where the stone comes from.
Now you have, clearly and succinctly, the explanation of the phenomenon.
If the face of the earth were covered with lice as the seashore is covered with grains of sand, the human race would be destroyed, a prey to dreadful pain.
What a sight!
With me, motionless on my angel wings in the air to contemplate it!
10  Oh rigorous mathematics, I have not forgotten you since your wise lessons, sweeter than honey, filtered into my heart like a refreshing wave.
Instinctively, from the cradle, I had longed to drink from your source, older then the sun, and I continue to tread the sacred sanctuary of your solemn temple, I, the most faithful of your devotees.
There was a vagueness in my mind, something thick as smoke; but I managed to mount the steps which lead to your altar, and you drove away this dark veil, as the wind blows the draught-board.
You replaced it with excessive coldness, consummate prudence and implacable logic.
With the aid of your fortifying milk, my intellect developed rapidly and took on immense proportions amid the ravishing lucidity which you bestow as a gift on all those who sincerely love you.
Arithmetic!
Algebra!
Geometry!
Awe- inspiring trinity!
Luminous triangle!
He who has not known you is a fool!
He would deserve the ordeal of the greatest tortures; for there is blind disdain in his ignorant indifference; but he who knows you and appreciates you no longer wants the goods of the earth and is satisfied with your magical delights; and, borne on your sombre wings, wishes only to rise in effortless flight, constructing as he does a rising spiral, towards the spherical vault of the heavens.
Earth only offers him illusions and moral phantasmagoria; but you, concise mathematics, by the rigorous sequence of your unshakable propositions and the constancy of your iron rules, give to the dazzled eyes a powerful reflection of that supreme truth whose imprint can be seen in the order of the universe.
But the order surrounding you, represented by the perfect regularity of the square, Pythagoras' friend, is greater still; for the Almighty has revealed himself and his attributes completely in this memorable work, which consisted in bringing from the bowels of chaos the treasures of your theorems and your magnificent splendours.
In ancient epochs and in modern times more than one man of great imagination has been awe-struck by the contemplation of your symbolic figures traced on paper, like so many mysterious signs, living and breathing in hidden ways not understood by the profane multitudes; these signs were only the glittering revelations of eternal axioms and hieroglyphs, which existed before the universe and will remain after the universe has passed away.
And then this man of vision wonders, leaning towards the precipice of a fatal question-mark, how it is that mathematics contains so much imposing grandeur and undeniable truth, whereas, when he compares it with mankind, he finds among the latter only false pride and deceitfulness.
And then this saddened superior spirit, whose noble familiarity with your precepts has made him even more aware of the pettiness and incomparable folly of mankind, buries his white-haired head in his fleshless hands and remains engrossed in his supernatural meditations.
He kneels before you and in his veneration pays homage to your divine face, the very image of the Almighty.
In my childhood you appeared to me one May night by the light of the moonbeams in a green meadow beside a clear stream, all three equal in grace and modesty, all three full of the majesty of queens.
You took a few steps towards me in your long dresses floating like mist and lured me towards your proud breasts like a blessed son.
Then I ran up eagerly, my arms clenched around your white throats.
I fed gratefully on your rich manna, and I felt humanity growing within me, becoming deeper.
Since that time, rival goddesses, I have not abandoned you.
How many mighty projects, since that time, how many sympathies which I had believed to be engraved on the pages of my heart as on marble, have been slowly effaced from my disillusioned reason by their configurative lines, as the oncoming dawn effaces the shadows of the night!
Since that time, rival goddesses, I have seen death whose intention, clear to the naked eye, was to people graveyards, I have seen him ravaging battlefields fertilized by human blood from which morning flowers grow above human remains.
Since then I have witnessed revolutions on this globe, earthquakes, volcanoes with their blazing lava, the simoun of the desert and tempest-torn shipwrecks have known my presence as an impassive spectator.
Since that time I have seen several generations of human beings lift up their wings in the morning and move off into space with the inexperienced joy of the chrysalid greeting its first metamorphosis, only to die in the evening before sunset, their heads bowed like withered flowers blown by the plaintive whistling of the wind.
But you remain always the same.
No change, no foul air disturbs the lofty crags and immense valleys of your immutable identity.
Your modest pyramids will last longer than the pyramids of Egypt, those anthills raised by stupidity and slavery.
And at the end of all the centuries you will stand on the ruins of time, with your cabbalistic ciphers, your laconic equations and your sculpted lines, on the avenging right of the Almighty, whereas the stars will plunge despairingly, like whirlwinds in the eternity of horrible and universal night, and grimacing mankind will think of settling its accounts at Last Judgment.
Thank you for countless services you have done me.
Thank you for the strange qualities with which you enriched my intellect.
Without you in my struggle against man I would perhaps have been defeated.
Without you, he would have made me grovel in the dust and kiss his feet.
If it had not been for you, he would have flayed my flesh and bones with his perfidious claws.
But I have kept on my guard, like an experienced athlete.
You gave me the coldness of your sublime conceptions, free of all passion.
And I used it to reject scornfully the ephemeral pleasures of my short journey, and spurn the well-meaning but deceptive advances of my fellows.
You gave me the dogged prudence which can be deciphered at every step of your admirable methods of analysis, synthesis and deduction.
I used it to outdo the pernicious wiles of my mortal enemy and to attack him skillfully in turn, plunging into his entrails a sharp dagger which will forever remain buried in his body; for it is a wound from which he will never recover.
You gave me logic which is, as it were, the soul itself of your teachings, full of wisdom, and with its syllogisms, the complex labyrinth of which makes it nonetheless intelligible, my intellect felt its audacious strength increasing twofold.
By means of this terrible auxiliary, I discovered in mankind, as I swam towards the depths, opposite the reef of hatred, the black and hideous wickedness which lurked amidst the noxious miasmata admiring its navel.
First I discovered in the darkness of his entrails that nefarious vice, evil!
superior in him to good.
With the poisonous weapon you lent me I brought down from his pedestal, built by man’s cowardice, the Creator himself!
He gnashed his teeth and was subjected to this ignominious insult; for he had as adversary one stronger than he.
But I will leave him aside like a bundle of string, in order to fly down lower...The thinker Descartes once observed that nothing solid has ever been built on you.
That was an ingenious way of pointing out that not just anybody can immediately discover your inestimable value.
In fact, what could be more solid than the three principal qualities above mentioned which rise up, joined in a single crown, to the august summit of your colossal architecture?
A monument which is incessantly growing as discoveries are made daily in your diamantine mines, and with all the scientific researchers carried out in your domains.
O holy mathematics, may I for the rest of my days be consoled by perpetual intercourse with you, consoled for the wickedness of man and the injustice of the Almighty!
11  'O lamp with the silver burner, my eyes perceive you in the air, companion of cathedral vaults, and they ask why you are hanging there.
It is said that at night your light illuminates the rabble who come to adore the Almighty, that you show the repentant the way to the altar.
Listen, that is very probable; but...do you need to perform such services for those to whom you owe nothing?
Let the columns of the basilica remain plunged in darkness; and when a blast of the tempest, on which the demon is borne whirling through space, penetrates with him into the holy place, spreading terror, instead of struggling courageously against the foul gust of the Prince of Evil, go out, suddenly as he blows feverishly on you, so that he may select his victims unseen from among the kneeling believers.
If you do that, you may say I owe you all my happiness.
When you shine thus, spreading your dull but adequate light, I dare not succumb to the promptings of my character and I remain standing beneath the sacred portico, looking through the half-open door at those who escape my vengeance by hiding in the bosom of the Lord.
O poetic lamp!
you who would be my friend if you could understand me, when my feet are treading the basalt of churches in the night hours, why do you begin to shine in a way which, I must confess, seems extraordinary to me?
Your gleams are then tinged with the white hue of electric light; the eye cannot look at you; and you illuminate with a new and powerful flame every detail of the Creator's kennel, as if you were in the throes of holy wrath.
When, having blasphemed you, I withdraw, you become imperceptible, pale and modest again, sure in the knowledge that you have accomplished an act of justice.
Tell me now; would it be because you know all the windings of my heart, that when I happen to appear where you are keeping watch, you eagerly indicate my pernicious presence, drawing the attention of the worshippers to the direction where the enemy of man has just appeared.
I am inclined towards this view; for I, too, am beginning to know you; and I know you who you are, old witch, keeping watch so well over sacred mosques where your curious master struts like a cock's crest.
Watchful guardian; your mission is a mad one; I warn you; the first time you point me out to my cautious fellow-beings by increasing the strength of your phosphorescent light (I do not like this optical phenomenon which is not, by the way, mentioned in any textbook of physics), I will take you by the skin of your breast hooking my claws into the scabs of your scurvy nape, and I will fling you into the Seine.
I do not intend, when I leave you alone, that you should deliberately behave in a manner harmful to me.
There I will allow you to shine as much as I please; there you will defy me with your inextinguishable smile; there, convinced of the ineffectiveness of your criminal oil, you will urinate bitterly.'
Having spoken thus, Maldoror does not leave the temple and remains with his eyes fixed on the lamp of the holy place...He believes there is a kind of provocation in the attitude of this lamp, which he finds in the highest degree irritating because of its untimely presence.
He says to himself that if there is a soul enclosed in the lamp it is cowardly of it not to answer his honest attack with sincerity.
He beats the air with his sinewy arms, wishing the lamp would change into a man; and then it would have a hard time for a quarter of an hour, he could promise it that.
But by what means can a lamp change into man; it is unnatural.
He does not give up, and goes in search of a flat stone with a filed-down edge on the floor of the wretched pagoda.
He hurls it violently into the air; the chain is cut in the middle like grass by a scythe, and the implement of worship falls to the ground, spreading its oil on the tiles.
He seizes that lamp to take it outside with him, but it resists and grows bigger.
He seems to see wings at its sides, and the top part takes on the shape of an angel.
The whole thing is trying to rise into the air and fly off; but he holds it back with a firm hand.
A lamp and angel forming one and the same body, that is something one does not often see.
He recognizes the form of the lamp; he recognizes the form of the angel; but he cannot separate them in his mind; in fact they are in reality cleaving to one another, and form only one free and independent body; but he thinks that some cloud has passed before his eyes; causing him to lose something of the excellence of his eyesight.
Nevertheless, he prepares courageously for the struggle, for his adversary shows no fear.
The naive tell those credulous enough to believe them that the sacred portal closed of its own accord, turning on its anguished hinges lest anyone should witness the impious struggles whose changes of fortune were going to occur within the walls of the profaned sanctuary.
The man in the coat, though serious wounds are being inflicted on him by an invisible sword, tries to bring his mouth near to the angel's face; he thinks only of that, and all his efforts tend towards this goal.
The angel's energy is ebbing, and he seems to have a presentiment of his fate.
He only struggles weakly now and one can see the moment coming when his adversary will be able to kiss him with ease, if that is what he wishes to do.
Well, the moment has come.
With his muscles he strangles the angel who can no longer breathe.
For a moment he is moved at the thought of the fate which awaits this celestial being whose friend he would gladly have become.
But he says that he is the Lord's envoy and cannot control his wrath.
It is done; something horrible is going to return to the cage of time!
He leans over and puts his tongue, dripping with saliva, on to the cheek of the angel, who is looking up imploringly.
For some time, he moves his tongue up and down his cheek.
Oh!...Oh...look...look!...the white and pink cheek has become black as coal!
It is emitting putrid miasmata.
It is gangrene; there is no longer any room for doubt.
The gnawing evil spreads all over his face and from there ravages the lower parts; soon the whole body is nothing but one vast vile sore.
He himself, terror-stricken (for he did not think that his tongue contained such strong poison), picks up the lamp and rushes out of the church.
Once outside, he sees a blackish shape with burnt wings laboriously flying towards the regions of heaven.
They look at one another as the angle climbs towards the serene regions of the good, whereas he, Maldoror, descends into the vertiginous abysses of evil...What a look!
All that mankind has thought for sixty centuries, all that it has yet to think in the centuries to come, could easily be contained in that supreme adieu, so much did it say!
But it is obvious that these were thoughts far higher than those which spring from human intelligence; first of all because of the two characters and then because of the circumstances.
This look bound them in eternal friendship.
He is astounded that the Creator can have such noble envoys.
For a moment, he thinks that he has made a mistake and wonders if he ought to have followed that road of evil as he has done.
His disquiet has passed; he persists in his resolution; and it is glorious, according to him, to conquer the Almighty sooner or later, in order to reign in his stead over the entire universe, and over legions of such beautiful angels.
The angel makes it clear without speaking that he will reassume his original form as he flies nearer heaven; and he lets fall a tear which cools the brow of him who gave him gangrene; and gradually disappears, rising like a vulture amidst the clouds.
The guilty one looks at the lamp, the cause of all the preceding events.
He runs like a madman through the streets towards the Seine and flings the lamp over the parapet.
It whirls around for a few seconds and then plunges down into the murky waters.
Since that day, every evening from nightfall onwards a shining lamp can be seen which rises and floats gracefully on the water, passes beneath the arches just off the Pont Napoleon, bearing instead of handles two charming little angel's wings.
It moves forwards slowly on the water, passes beneath the arches of the Pont de la Gare and the Pont d'Austerlitz, and continues on its silent course along the Seine as far as the Pont d'Alma.
Once there it turns easily again to follow the course of the river, returning after four hours to its starting point.
Its light, white as electric light, eclipses that of the gas-lamps bordering the banks between which she advances like a queen, solitary, inscrutable, with and inextinguishable smile, not bitterly spilling its oil.
In the beginning, the boats gave it chase; but it foiled these vain efforts, escaped from all pursuits, diving like a coquette to reappear a long way further on.
Now superstitious sailors stop singing when they see it, and row in the opposite direction.
When you are crossing a bridge by night, be careful; you are bound to see the lamp shining somewhere or other; although it is said that it does not show itself to everyone.
When a human being with something on his conscience crosses the bridge, its light suddenly goes out, and the man, terror-stricken, vainly and desperately peers at the surface and the mudbanks of the river.
He knows that that means.
He would like to believe that he has seen the celestial light; but no, he says that the light only came from the front of the boats or from the reflection of the gas-lamps; and he is right...He knows that he is the cause of the lamp's disappearance; and, plunged in sad reflections, he quickens his step to arrive at his house.
Then the lamp with the silver burner reappears on the surface and continues on its way with elegant and capricious arabesques.
12  Listen, human beings, to the thoughts which came to me in my childhood when I awoke with my red verge: 'I have just awoken; but my thoughts are still dull.
Each morning I feel a heaviness in my head.
It is rare for me to be able to rest at night; for frightful dreams torment me when I manage to get to sleep.
In the day my mind is weary with strange meditations, while my eyes gaze aimlessly into space; and at night I cannot sleep.
When shall I sleep then?
And yet nature needs to insist on its rights.
Since I disdain her, she makes me face pale and makes my eyes glow with the bitter flame of fever.
Besides, there is nothing I would like better than to be spared exhausting my mind by continual reflection; but even if I did not want to, my dismayed feelings would irresistibly drag me down this slope.
I have noticed that the other children are like me; but they are even paler and their faces are distorted by permanent frowns, like grown men, our elder brothers.
O Creator of the universe, I will not fail to offer you up this morning the incense of my childish prayer.
Sometimes I forget it and I have noticed that on these days I feel happier than usual; my heart opens out, free of all constraint, and I breathe more easily the balmy air of the fields; whereas whenever I accomplish this painful duty, imposed on me by my parents, of addressing a song of praise to you every day, I am always bored by the tedious necessity of laboriously inventing new versions, and so I feel sad and irritated for the rest of the day; for it does not seem to me to be either logical or natural to invent what I do not really think, and then I seek isolation, immense solitudes.
If I ask them for an explanation of this state of soul, they do not answer me.
I should like to love and adore you; but you are too powerful, and there is fear in all my prayers.
If simply by the manifestation of your thought you can destroy or create worlds, my weak prayers will be of no use to you; if whenever you wish you can send cholera to ravage cities, or send death to carry away in its claws, indiscriminately, people of all ages, then I wish to have no truck with one so fearsome!
Not that hatred dictates the thread of my arguments; on the contrary, it is your hatred I fear which, at a capricious command, may suddenly emerge from within you and become vast as the wing-span of the Andean condor.
Your questionable amusements are beyond me, I would probably be their first victim.
You are the Almighty.
I am not disputing your right to that title, since you alone have the right to bear it and you are yourself the end and limit of your own desires, be their consequences disastrous or beneficial.
That is precisely why it would be painful for me to walk beside you in your cruel, sapphire-inlaid tunic, not as your slave but with the risk of becoming your slave from one moment to the next.
It is true that when you look into your soul to examine your sovereign conduct, if the ghost of a past injustice towards wretched mankind, which has always obeyed you as your most loyal friend, should raise up before you the motionless vertebrae of and avenging backbone, then, too late, your haggard eyes weep tears of remorse, and then your hair standing on end, you really believe in the resolution you make; which is: to suspend forever in the undergrowth of nothingness the inconceivable diversions of your tigerish imagination; an idea which would be ludicrous if it were not pitiable; but I also know that constancy has never fixed like strong marrow in your bones the harpoon of its eternal habituation, and that quite often you and your thoughts, covered in the black leprosy of error, relapse into the dismal lake of dark maledictions.
I would like to believe that these maledictions are unconscious (although that would in no way dilute the deadliness of their venom) and that good and evil joined together burst in reckless leaps from your gangrened breast, like the mountain stream from the rock, by the secret spell of some blind force; but I have no proof that this is the case.
Too often I have seen your vile teeth chattering with rage and your august face, covered with the moss of time, reddening like a burning coal because of some trivial misdemeanor of men; I have seen this too often to be able to stand for long before the signpost of this innocent hypothesis.
And so, every day, my hands devoutly joined, I shall offer up to you my humble prayer, since it has to be.
But, I implore you, do not include me among the objects of your providence; leave me out of consideration, like the worm which crawls beneath the ground.
I would prefer to feed greedily on marine plants, washed by tropical waves on to the shores of wild an unknown islands in the heart of those foaming regions; I would prefer this to the knowledge that you are observing me and that your sneering scalpel is probing my consciousness.
It has just revealed to you the totality of my thoughts, and I hope that you, in your prudence, will generously approve of the good sense ineffaceably stamped on them.
Apart from these reservations about the more or less intimate relations between us, my mouth is ready at any hour of the day to exhale, like an artificial wind, the wave of lies which reverence for your halo rigorously requires of each human being, from the moment when bluish dawn breaks; seeking the light in the satin folds of twilight as I seek good deeds, spurred on by love of the Good.
My years are not many and yet I already sense that goodness is nothing more than a couple of sonorous syllables.
I have not found it anywhere.
Your character is easy to read; you make it too blatant.
You ought to hide it more skillfully.
Yet perhaps I am mistaken and you are doing it deliberately; for you know better than anyone else how ought to act.
Men pride themselves on imitating you; that is why holy goodness finds no tabernacle in their wild eyes: like father, like son.
Whatever one should think of your intelligence, I am only speaking as an impartial critic.
I would be delighted to be shown that I have been led into error.
I do not wish to show you the hatred I bear you, which I lovingly brood on like a cherished daughter; it is better to hide it from your eyes and in your presence only to assume the appearance of a severe censor, with the duty of checking on all your foul actions.
Thus you will break off all active intercourse with my hatred, you will forget it and you will destroy completely this maggot which is gnawing at your liver.
Rather I would prefer you to hear words of reverie and meekness...
Yes, it is you who created the world and all that is in it.
You are perfect.
There is no virtue which you do not possess.
You are very mighty, as everyone knows.
May the entire universe sing your eternal hymn through every hour of time.
May the birds bless you as they soar over the countryside.
The stars are yours.
Amen!'
How astonished you will find me as I really am!
13  I sought a soul akin to mine, but I could not find one.
I searched every corner of the earth; my perseverance brought no reward.
Yet I could not remain alone.
Someone had to approve of my character; someone had to have the same ideas as I.
It was morning; the sun rose in all its magnificence on the horizon and before my eyes a young man also arose whose presence made flowers grow as he passed.
He approached me and, holding out his hand, said: ‘I have come to you who seek me.
Let us bless this happy day.’ But I answered: ‘Go away.
I did not call you; I do not need your friendship.’ It was evening; night was beginning to spread the veil of its blackness over nature.
A lovely woman, whose form I could only just make out, was exerting a spellbinding influence over me, and looking at me, I said: ‘Come closer, that I may make out clearly the features of your face; for the light of the stars is not strong enough to show them, at this distance.’ Then, with her eyelids lowered, she stepped chastely across the lawn in my direction.
As soon as I saw her I said: ‘I see that goodness and justice have dwelt in your heart.
We could never live together.
Now you admire my beauty, which has distracted more than one; but sooner or later you would repent of having given your love to me; for you do not know my soul.
Not that I would ever be unfaithful to you; to her who gives herself to me with such trust and abandon I will give myself with equal trust and abandon; but get this into your head and do not ever forget it: wolves and lambs do not look lovingly at one another.’ What did I need, I who had rejected with such disgust the loveliest of mankind!
What I needed I could not say.
I was not yet in the habit of keeping strict note of my mental phenomena according to the methods recommended by philosophy.
I sat down on a rock, by the sea.
A ship had just set all sails to leave those parts: an impenetrable point had just appeared on the horizon and was gradually approaching, driven on by the gust of wind, and growing rapidly in size.
The tempest was about to begin its assaults, already the sky was growing dark, until it became black, almost as hideous as the heart of man.
The ship, which was a big man-of-war, had just dropped anchor to avoid being swept on to the rocks.
The wind was whistling furiously from all directions, tearing the sails to shreds.
Thunder was bursting amid the lightning flashes, and could not drown the sounds of lamentations heard in this house with no foundations, this moving sepulchre.
The rolling of those watery masses had not yet broken the anchor-chains; but their buffetings had opened a way for the water in the ship’s sides.
It was an enormous breach; the pumps are unable to bail out the flood of salt water which comes foaming and beating down on the bridge like mountains.
The ship in distress fires the cannon to give the alarm; but it sinks slowly...majestically.
He who has not seen a ship sinking in a hurricane, and flashes of lightning alternating with the deepest darkness, while those who are in it are overwhelmed with the despair you know of, that man knows nothing of the accidents of life.
At last a universal wail of immense pain goes up from the sides of the ship, while the sea redoubles its dreadful attacks.
It is the cry of men who have no strength left.
Each man wraps himself in the cloak of resignation and leaves his fate in God's hands.
They huddle up together like a flock of sheep.
The ship in distress fires the cannon to give the alarm; but it sinks slowly...majestically.
The pumps have been going all day long.
Vain efforts.
Night, thick and implacable, has come to put the finishing stroke to this gracious spectacle.
Everyone says inwardly that once he is in the water he will not be able to breathe; for as far as he can recall, he knows of no fishes among his ancestors.
But he resolves to hold his breath for as long as possible, to prolong his life by two or three seconds; that is the avenging irony with which he wishes to confront death...The ship in distress fires the cannon to give the alarm; but it sinks slowly...majestically.
He does not know that the sinking vessel causes a powerful circumvolution of waves; that murky undercurrents have joined the troubled waters and a force from below, the counterpart of the tempest raging above, is making the movements of the element nervous and spasmodic.
Thus, despite the store of composure which he is gathering in advance, the future drowned man, after mature consideration, ought to feel happy if he can even prolong his life amid the eddying deeps by the space of half a normal breath for good measure.
He will not be able to flout death, which is his supreme wish.
The ship in distress fires the cannon to give the alarm; but it sinks slowly...majestically.
I am wrong.
It is no longer firing its cannon, it is not sinking.
No!
