A whole group of scavenger birds, lovers of the flesh of others and defenders of the value of hunting, lovely as the skeletons which take the leaves from Arkansas panoccos, hover around your brow, like submissive and favoured servants.
But is it a brow?
It is not difficult to hesitate before answering this question.
It is so low that it is impossible to check the small number of proofs for its doubtful existence.
I am not telling you this for fun.
Perhaps you have no brow, you who cast the image of your buoying movement, like a dimly reflected symbol of a fantastic dance, on the wall?
Who scalped you then?
If it was a human being whom you locked away in a prison for twenty years and who then escaped to prepare a revenge which could not be a fitting reprisal, he did as he ought to, and I applaud him; the only thing is, he was two lenient.
Now you look like a Red-Indian prisoner, at least (let us note this a preliminary point) by your expressive lack of hair.
Not that it could not grow again, as physiologists have shown that, in the case of animals, even brains that have been removed eventually reappear; but my thoughts, stopping at this simple affirmation, which is not, as far as I can see, unmixed with enormous delight, do not even in their boldest extremes go as far as reach the bounds of a wish for your recovery; on the contrary, my thoughts operate on the basis of an extremely suspect neutrality which regards what for you is merely a temporary loss of hair as the presage of greater woes to come (or at least wishes it to be so).
I hope you have understood me.
And even if, by an absurd but sometimes unreasonable miracle, chance allowed you to find the precious skin which your enemy has religiously and vigilantly kept as the intoxicating souvenir of his victory, it is almost extremely possible that, even if one had only studied the law of probability in its relation to mathematics (now we know that analogy can easily bring the application of this law into other domains of the understanding), your justifiable but somewhat exaggerated fear of a partial or total chill would not spurn the important, and even unique, opportunity which would arise so expediently, though suddenly, of protecting the different parts of your brain from contact with the atmosphere, especially in winter, by means of a head-piece which rightly belongs to you because it is natural and which you would besides be allowed (it would be incomprehensible if you were to deny it) to keep constantly on your head, without running the always unpleasant risks of infringing the simplest rules of elementary decency.
You are listening attentively to me, are you not?
If you go on listening, your sadness will be far from escaping from the inside of your red nostrils.
But as I am very impartial and as I do not detest you as much as I ought to (tell me if I am mistaken), you lend an ear to my speech despite yourself, as if impelled by a superior force.
I am not as evil as you: that is why your genius bows down before mine...Really, I am not as evil as you.
You have just cast a glance at that city on the mountainside.
And now what do I see?
All its inhabitants are dead!
I have as much pride as the next man, perhaps even more.
Well, listen...listen, if the confession of a man who recalls having lived for half a century as a shark in the undersea currents along the coast of Africa interests you deeply enough to pay attention to him, if not with bitterness, at least without the irreparable fault of showing the revulsion you feel for me.
I shall not throw the mask of virtue at your feet, but shall appear before you as I am; for I have never worn it (if that is an excuse); and from the first moments, if you examine my features closely, you will recognize me as your respectful disciple in perversity, but not as your formidable rival.
Since I do not dispute the palm of evil with you, I doubt if another will do so; for he would first have to be my equal, which is not easy.
Listen, unless you are but the weak condensation of a fog (you are hiding your body somewhere, and I cannot find it): one morning, I saw a little girl leaning over the edge of a lake to pick a pink lotus; she steadied herself with precocious experience; she was stretching towards the flower when her look met mine (it is true that on my part the look was not unpremeditated).
She immediately staggered like the whirlpool the tide causes around a rock, her legs gave way beneath her and, wonder to behold, a phenomenon which occurred as truly as I am talking to you now, she fell to the bottom of the lake; strange to say, she did not pick any more nymphaeceae.
What is she doing down there?...I did not trouble to find out.
No doubt her will; having joined the ranks under the flag of deliverance, is fighting desperate battles against decay.
But, oh my master, at your look the inhabitants of the earth are wiped out, like an anthill crushed beneath the elephant's heel.
Have I not just witnessed an example which demonstrates this?
See...the mountain is no longer full of joyful sounds...it is as forlorn as an old man.
The houses still stand, it is true; but it is not a paradox to state, in hushed tones, that the same cannot be said for those who were inside them and no longer exist.
Already the emanations from the corpses have reached me.
Can you not smell them?
Look at those birds of prey waiting for us to go away, so that they may begin this giant meal; there is an endless cloud of them coming from the four corners of the earth...Alas, they had already come, since I saw you, as if to spur you on to speed up your crime.
Does not your sense of smell perceive the least emanation?
The impostor is nothing but...at least your olfactory nerves are disturbed by the perception of aromatic atoms rising up from the city, though you do not need me to tell you this.
I would like to kiss your feet, but my arms clasp only transparent vapour.
Let us look for this untraceable body which my eyes nonetheless perceive: it deserves the most numerous tokens of sincere admiration on my part.
The phantom is mocking me: it is helping me to look for its own body.
If I gesture to it to remain in its place, it makes the same gesture back.
The secret has been discovered; but not, I must frankly say, to my greatest satisfaction.
Everything has been explained, the most significant as well as the most trivial details; these last are too unimportant to bring to mind; as, for example, the plucking out of the blonde woman's eyes: that is almost nothing!
Did I not recall that I, too, had been scalped, though it was only for five years (the exact length of time had escaped me) that I had locked a human being up in prison so that I might witness his suffering, because he had, rightly, refused me a friendship which cannot be granted to beings such as me?
Since I pretend not to know that my look can bring death even to the planets revolving in space, he who claims that I do not possess the faculty of memory is not mistaken.
What remains for me to do is to smash this mirror to pieces with a stone...it is not the first time the nightmare of temporary loss of memory has taken hold of my imagination whenever, by the inflexible laws of optics, I happen to stand before my own unrecognizable image!
6  I had fallen asleep on a cliff.
He who has unsuccessfully pursued the ostrich across the desert all day has had no time to take any food or to close his eyes.
If it is he who is now reading me, he can guess how heavy was the sleep into which I fell.
But when the tempest with the palm of its hand has vertically pushed a small vessel to the bottom of the sea; if, on the raft, but one man of all the crew remains, broken by weariness and privations of all kinds; if, for hour which seem longer than the life of man, he is tossed like flotsam on the waves; and if, some time later, a frigate's long curved keel should plough through those desolate regions and sight the wretch's fleshless carcass on the ocean, bringing help which almost came too late, I think this shipwrecked man will be even better able to guess the extent to which my senses were deadened.
Mesmerism and chloroform, when they take the trouble, can also produce such lethargic catalepsies.
They are not at all like death; it would be lie to day they are.
But let us come straightaway to the dream, lest eager readers, starving for reading matter of this kind, begin to roar like a shoal of macrocephalic whales fighting among themselves for a pregnant female.
I dreamt I had entered the body of a hog, that I could not easily get out again, and that I was wallowing in the filthiest slime.
Was it a kind of reward?
My dearest wish had been granted, I no longer belonged to mankind.
For my part I understood this to be the correct interpretation, and I felt the deepest joy.
And yet I actively inquired into this to see what deed of virtue I had done to deserve this remarkable boon from Providence.
Now that I have gone over in my mind the different phases of my frightful prostration on the granite belly, during which, unknown to me, the tide flowed twice over this irreducible mixture of living flesh and dead matter, it is perhaps not unprofitable to proclaim that this degradation was only a punishment inflicted on me by divine justice.
But who knows his inmost needs or the causes of his pestilential joys?
The metamorphosis was always in my eyes the high and magnanimous resonance of the perfect happiness which I had long been awaiting.
At last the day had come when I was a hog!
I tested my teeth on the barks of trees; with pleasure I contemplated my snout.
Not the slightest trace of divinity remained: I raised my soul to the excessive height of that unspeakable delight.
Listen then to me, and do not blush, inexhaustible caricatures of the Beautiful, who take seriously the laughable brayings of your supremely despicable souls; and who do not understand why the Almighty, in a rare moment of excellent buffoonery which certainly did not transgress the great general laws of the grotesque, one day took amazing pleasure in peopling a planet with strange microscopic beings called humans, made of matter resembling pink coral.
Certainly, flesh and bone, you have reason to blush, but listen to me.
I do not invoke your understanding; it would spit blood at the horror you cause it: forget it, and be consistent with yourselves...There were no constraints there.
Whenever I wanted to kill, I killed.
I even wanted to quite often and no one stopped me.
The vengeance of human laws still pursued me, although I did not attack the race I had so calmly abandoned; but my conscience did not reproach me at all.
During the day, I fought my new fellows, and the ground was often bespattered with many layers of congealed blood.
I was the strongest, and I won all the victories.
Biting wounds covered my body; I pretended not to notice them.
The animals of the earth shunned me and I remained alone in my dazzling grandeur.
What was my astonishment when, having swum across a river, leaving behind me lands which my fury had depopulated to find other countries in which to plant my customs of carnage and murder, I tried to walk on that flowery bank.
My feet were paralysed; and no movements of any kind belied this enforced immobility.
It was then, amid supernatural efforts to continue on my way, that I awoke and realized that I was turning back into a man.
Thus Providence made clear to me, in a not inexplicable way, that she did not want my sublime projects to be realized even in a dream.
Reverting to my original form was such a great grief for me that I still weep at nights.
My sheets are constantly wet, as if they had been dipped in water, and every day I have them changed.
If you do not believe me, come and see me.
Then you will be able to check with your own experience not only the likelihood but the truth of my assertion.
How often since that night spent in the open on the cliff have I not joined herds of hogs to take on my ruined metamorphosis as a right!
It is time to give up these glorious memories, which only leave the milky way of eternal regrets in their wake.
7  It is not impossible to witness an abnormal deviation in the hidden or visible operations of the laws of nature.
Indeed, if everyone takes the trouble of ingeniously investigating the different phases of his existence (not forgetting a single one, for it might be just that one which furnished the proof of what I am suggesting), it would not be without a certain astonishment, which in other circumstances would be comic, that he recalls that, on such a day, to speak first of objective matters, he witnessed a phenomenon which seemed to go beyond, and positively did go beyond, the common notions of observation and experience, such as showers of toads for example, the magic spectacle of which was not at first understood by scientists.
And that on another day, to speak in the second and last place of subjective matters, his soul presented to the inquiring gaze of psychology, I will not will not go so far as to say an aberration of reason (which, however, would be no less curious; on the contrary, it would be more so), but at least, so as not to cause offence to certain cold individuals who would never forgive me for the flagrant lucubrations of my imagination, an unusual state, quite often very grave, which indicates that the bounds which good sense prescribes for the imagination are, despite the ephemeral pact between these powers, unfortunately overstepped by the powerful force of the will, but also more often than not by the absence of its effective collaboration.
To prove the point let us give two examples, the timeliness of which it is easy to appreciate: that is if one has attentive moderation as one's guide.
I give you two: the outbursts of anger and the disease of pride.
I warn him who reads me to beware of forming a vague and a fortiori wrong idea of the beauties of literature I am shedding like leaves before me in the excessively rapid unfolding of my sentences.
Alas!
I should like to develop my arguments and comparisons slowly and magnificently (but who is master of his own time?
), so that everyone could understand if not my dread at least my stupefaction when, one summer evening, as the sun seemed to be setting on the horizon, I saw a human being swimming in the sea, with the large webbed feet of a duck instead of arms and legs and a dorsal fin proportionally as long and streamlined as a dolphin's, strong of muscle, and followed by numerous shoals of fish (in the procession, among other water-dwellers, I saw the torpedo, the Greenland ananark, and the horrible scorpaena), all of whom showed signs of the greatest admiration.
Sometimes he would dive and his slimy body would reappear almost immediately two hundred metres away.
The porpoises, who in my opinion have well deserved their reputation as swimmers, could scarcely keep up with this new kind of amphibian, and followed at some distance.
I do not think the reader will have cause to regret it if he brings to my narration less the harmful obstacle of stupid credulity then the supreme service of profound confidence, examining lawfully and with secret sympathy the poetic mysteries, too few in number in his opinion, which I undertake to reveal to him as and when the opportunity arises, as it unexpectedly did today, inwardly imbued with the tonic scents of aquatic plants which the freshening wind blows into this strophe, which contains a monster who has appropriated the distinguishing features of the palimped family.
Who speaks here of appropriation?
Let it be known that man, by his multiple and complex nature, is not unaware of the means of extending his frontiers; he lives in the water, like the hippocamp; flies through the higher layers of the air, like the osprey; burrows in the earth, like the mole, the woodlouse, and the sublime maggot.
Such is, in its more or less succinct form (but rather more than less), the exact criterion of the extremely invigorating consolation which I strove to conceive, when I thought that the human being whom I saw so far off swimming with his four limbs on the surface of the waves as the most magnificent cormorant had ever done, had perhaps only acquired this novel change in the extremities of his arms and legs as a punishment in expiation of some unknown crime.
It was not necessary for me to trouble my head attempting to manufacture in advance the melancholy pill of pity; for I did not know that that man, whose arms, one after the other, were beating the bitter waves, while his legs, with all the power of the nar-whale's spiral tusks, were forcing back the aquatic layers, had neither deliberately appropriated these extraordinary powers nor had they been imposed on him as a punishment.
From what I learnt later, here is the simple truth: prolonged existence in this fluid element had imperceptibly brought about important but not essential changes in the human being who had exiled himself from the stony continents; these I had noticed in that object which a hurried and indistinct look had, in the primordial moments of his appearance (by and unspeakable act of thoughtlessness, the aberrations of which will be well understood by psychologists and lovers of prudence), made me take for a fish of a strange form but not yet described in the naturalists' classifications; but perhaps in their posthumous works, although I do not make the excusable claim of tending towards this supposition, imagined under conditions which are too hypothetical.
In fact, this amphibian (since amphibian it is, the contrary cannot be proved) was visible only to me (leaving out of consideration the fish and the cetacea); for I observed that some peasants, who had stopped to contemplate my face, which was troubled by this supernatural phenomenon, and who were vainly trying to explain why my eyes were constantly fixed, with a persistency which seemed invincible but in reality was not so, on a point in the sea where they themselves could only see an appreciable but limited number of shoals of fish of all kinds, distended the apertures of their huge mouths almost as much as a whale.
'It makes us smile, but it does not make us turn pale, as it does him'; they said in their picturesque language.
'And we are not so stupid as not to notice that he is not exactly looking as the bucolic frolickings of the fish, but much farther into the distance.'
So that, for my part, mechanically turning my eyes towards the spread of those two mouths, I said to myself that unless in the entire universe one found a pelican as big as a mountain or at least as big as a promontory (marvel, if you please, at this restriction which does not waste a single inch of ground), no beak of bird of prey or jaw of wild animal would ever be able to surpass or even equal each of these gaping, but too dismal, craters.
And yet, though I am fully in favour of the positive use of metaphor (this rhetorical figure does far more service to human aspirations towards the infinite than those who are riddled with prejudices and false ideas--which comes to the same thing--are prepared to acknowledge), it is nonetheless true that the risible mouths of these three peasants are still big enough to swallow three sperm-whales.
Let us shrink this comparison somewhat, let us be serious and content ourselves with saying that they were like three little elephants which have only just been born.
In a single stroke, the amphibian left a foamy wake one kilometre long behind him.
In the brief instant when his forward-straining arm remains suspended in the air before plunging down again, his fingers, outspread and joined together by a fold of skin in the form of membrane, seemed to be soaring up towards the heights of space and grasping the stars.
Standing on the rocks, I used my hands as a speaking-trumpet and exclaimed, while crabs and crayfish fled into the darkness of the most secret crevices: 'Oh you who swim faster than the winged frigate in its flight, if you still understand the meaning of these loud sounds which mankind utters as the faithful translation of its inner thoughts, deign for a moment to halt your swift movements and tell me briefly the phases of your true story.
But I warn you that you do not need to address me at all, if your bold design be to arouse in me that feeling of friendship and reverence which I felt for you the moment I saw you for the first time moving through the waves with the grace and the strength of a shark on your indomitable and rectilinear pilgrimage.'
A sigh, which made me shudder to the bone and made the rock on which the soles of my feet rested stagger (unless it was I who staggered, violently pierced by the sound-waves which brought such a cry of despair to my ears), could be heard even in the bowels of the earth; the fish dived beneath the waves with noise of an avalanche.
The amphibian did not dare approach too close to the shore; but as soon as he had ascertained that his voice reached my eardrum distinctly enough, he slowed down the movement of his palmate limbs and lifted his wrack-covered head up from the roaring waves.
I saw him bow his head, as if, by a solemn command, to summon the wandering pack of memories.
I did not dare interrupt him in this holy and archaeological occupation; absorbed in the past, he looked like a rock.
At last he spoke, as follows: 'The centipede is not short of enemies.
The fantastic beauty of its countless legs, instead of attracting the admiration of other animals, is perhaps only a powerful stimulus to their jealous irritation.
I should not be surprised to find out that this insect is exposed to the intensest hatred.
I shall not disclose my place of birth to you; it is of no account in this story; but it is my duty to prevent the disgrace which would spring from my disclosure from befalling my family.
After one year, heaven granted the wish of my father and mother (God forgive them!
): two twins, my brother and I, were born.
All the more reason for us to love one another.
But it was not to be so.
Because I was the more intelligent and handsomer of us two, my brother hated me, and made no attempt to hide his feelings: that is why my mother and father lavished most of their love on me, since by my genuine and constant friendship I was trying to appease a soul which had no right to bear ill-will against his own flesh and blood.
Then my brother's fury knew no bounds, and he damned me in our parents' hearts with the most unbelievable calumnies.
I lived for fifteen years in a dungeon, with maggots and foul water for my only food.
I shall not tell you the unspeakable torments I endured during my long and unjust confinement.
Sometimes, at any moment of the day, one of my three tormentors would take turns to come into my room, carrying tongs, pincers and different instruments of torture.
The cries which the tortures wrung from me left them unmoved; my abundant loss of blood made them smile.
Oh my brother, I have forgiven you, first cause of all my ills!
Is it not possible that one day, in your blind rage, you may see the light?!
I reflected much in my eternal prison.
You can guess how strong my hatred of mankind in general became.
My progressive enervation, my solitude of body and soul, had not yet deprived me of reason to the point where I felt resentment against those whom I had not ceased to love: the threefold iron collar in which I was enslaved.
I managed, by means of a cunning trick to regain my freedom!
Disgusted by those who lived on land and who, though they called themselves my fellow-beings, appeared to resemble me in nothing (if they found that I resembled them, why did they hurt me?
), I made my way towards the pebbles of the beach, firmly resolved to kill myself in the sea should in any way remind me of my previous unhappy existence.
Would you believe your own eyes?
Since the day I fled from my father's house, I have not had as much reason as you might think to complain of my life in the sea with its crystal grottoes.
Providence, as you see, has given me in part the nature of a swan.
I live in peace with the fish and they provide me with all the food I need as if I were their monarch.
I shall whistle in a special way so as not to set your teeth on edge, and you will see them all reappear.'
It happened just as he had predicted.
He went on swimming regally, surrounded by his train of loyal subjects.
And though after a few seconds he had completely disappeared from sight, using a telescope I could still see him on the furthest limits of the horizon.
With one hand he swam and with the other he wiped his eyes, made bloodshot by the terrible self-control he had had to muster to approach the shore.
He had done this to please me.
I threw the tell-tale instrument against the steep and jagged rocks; it leapt from rock to rock, and its broken pieces were swallowed by the waves.
Such were the final gesture and supreme adieu by which I bowed down, as in a dream, before a noble and unfortunate mind.
Yet everything that happened was real, that summer evening.
8  Every night, swooping with the vast span of my wings into the death-throes of my memory, I summoned up the memory of Falmer.
His blond hair, his oval face, his noble features, were still imprinted on my imagination...indestructibly...especially his blond hair.
Away, away with that hairless head, shining like a tortoise shell.
He was fourteen, I was only a year older.
Let that mournful voice be silent!
Why does it come to denounce me?
But it is I who am speaking.
Using my own tongue to utter my thoughts, I notice that my lips are moving and that it is I who am speaking.
And it is I who, as I tell a story of my youth, feeling remorse pierce my heart...it is I, unless I am mistaken...it is I who am speaking.
I was only a year older.
Who is he to whom I am referring?
It was a friend I had in the past, I think.
Yes, yes, I have already told you his name...I do not want to spell out these six letters again, no, no.
And there is no point either in repeating that I was six years older.
Even then my superior physical strength was all the more reason for helping him who had given himself to me across life's rough way, rather than ill-treating a being who was obviously weaker.
Now I think he was weaker in fact...Even then.
He was a friend I had in the past, I think.
My superior physical strength...every night...Especially his blond hair.
Bald heads have been seen by more than one human being; age, illness, sorrow (the three together, or separately) satisfactorily explain this negative phenomenon.
That at least is the answer a scientist would give me, if I questioned him about it.
Age, illness, sorrow.
But I know well (I, too, am a learned man) that one day, because he had caught my hand as I was raising my dagger to stab a woman in the breast, I grabbed him by the hair with my hand of iron and sent him whirling through the air with such speed that his hair remained in my hand, while his body, hurtling with centrifugal force, went crashing against the trunk of an oak.
I know well that one day his hair remained in my hand.
I, too, am learned.
Yes, yes, I have already said what his name was.
I know well that one day I committed a dastardly deed, as his body was flung through the air by centrifugal force.
He was fourteen.
When in a fit of madness I run across fields, pressing to my heart a bleeding thing which I have long kept as a revered relic, the little children who pursue me...the little children and the old women who pursue me, flinging stones after me, utter these mournful groans: 'There is Falmer's hair.'
Away, away with that bald head, shining like a tortoise shell...A bleeding thing.
But it is I myself who am speaking.
His oval face, his noble features...Now I think in fact he was the weaker.
The old women and the little children.
Now I think in fact...what was I going to say?...now I think in fact he was the weaker.
With my hand of iron.
That impact, did that impact kill him?
I am afraid of finding out the truth about what eyes did not witness.
In fact...Especially his blond hair.
In fact, I fled into the distance with a conscience thenceforward implacable.
He was fourteen.
With a conscience thenceforward implacable.
Every night.
When a young man who aspires to fame, bent over his desk on the fifth floor, at the silent hour of midnight, hears a rustling sound which he cannot account for, he turns his head, heavy with meditation and dusty manuscripts, and looks round in all directions.
But nothing, no start, no sign, reveals the cause of what he so faintly hears, though hear it he does.
At last he notices that the smoke of the candle, soaring up towards the ceiling, causes in the surrounding air the almost imperceptible rustling of a piece of paper pinned by a nail to the wall.
On the fifth floor.
Just as a young man who aspires to fame hears a rustling which he cannot account for so I hear a melodious voice saying in my ear: 'Maldoror!'
But before correcting his error, he thought he heard a mosquito's wings...leaning over his desk.
Yet I am not dreaming; though I am lying on my satin-sheeted bed, what of it?
I coolly make the shrewd observation that my eyes are open, though it be the hour of pink dominoes and masked balls.
Never...oh!
no, never!...did mortal voice give utterance to those seraphic tones, pronouncing with such sorrowful elegance the syllables of my name!
The wings of a mosquito...How kind and gentle his voice is.
Has he forgiven me?
his body smashed against the trunk of an oak...'Maldoror!'
FIFTH BOOK   1  Let the reader not be angry with me, if my prose does not have the good fortune to appeal to him.
You will agree that my ideas are at least singular.
And what you say, respectable man, is the truth; but a partial truth.
now what an abundant source of errors and confusion all partial truths are!
Flocks of starlings have a way of flying which is peculiar to them, and seem to move according to a regular and uniform plan such as that of a well-drilled company of soldiers punctiliously obeying the orders of their one and only leader.
The starling obey the voice of instinct, and their instinct tells them to keep on approaching the centre of the main body, whereas the rapidity of their flight takes them incessantly beyond it; so that this multitude of birds, thus joined in their common movement towards the same magnetic point, incessantly coming and going, circling and criss-crossing in all directions, forms a kind of highly turbulent eddy, the entire mass of which, though not moving in any definable direction, seems to have a general tendency to turn in upon itself, this tendency resulting from the individual circling movements of each one of its parts, in which the centre, endlessly tending to expand but continually pressed down and repulsed by the opposing force of the surrounding lines which weigh down on it, is constantly tighter, more compact, than any one of these lines which themselves become more and more so, the nearer they come to the centre.
In spite of this strange way of eddying, the starlings nonetheless cleave the ambient air with rare speed and every second perceptibly gain precious ground as they move towards the end of their weary migration and the goal of their pilgrimage.
Neither should you take any notice of the bizarre way in which I sing each of these strophes.
But let me assure you that the fundamental accents of poetry retain unabated their intrinsic rights over my understanding.
Let us not generalize about exceptional cases, that is all I ask: yet my character is in the order of possible things.
no doubt between the two furthest limits of your literature, as you understand it, and mine, there is an infinity of intermediate points, and it would be easy to multiply the divisions; but there would be no point at all in that, and there would be the danger of narrowing and falsifying an eminently philosophic conception which ceases to be rational, unless it is taken as it was conceived, that is, expansively.
So, observer of a thoughtful disposition, you can combine enthusiasm with inner coolness; well then, for me you are ideal...and yet you refuse to understand me!
If you are not in good health, take my advice (it is the best I can give you), and go take a walk in the country.
A poor compensation you say?
When you have taken the air, come back to me.
Your senses will be less weary.
Do not cry any more; I did not want to hurt you.
Is it not true, my friend, that to a certain extent these songs have met with your approval?
Now what prevents you from going all the way?
The boundary between your taste and mine is invisible; you will never be able to grasp it: which proves that this boundary itself does not exist.
Reflect that in that case (I am only touching on the question here) it would not be impossible that you had signed a treaty of alliance with stubbornness, that pleasant daughter of a donkey, such a rich source of intolerance.
If I did not know that you were no fool, I would reproach you thus.
It is not good for you to become encrusted in the cartilaginous carapace of an axiom you believe to be unshakeable.
There are other axioms, too, which are unshakeable and which run parallel to yours.
If you have a strong liking for caramel (an admirable practical joke on nature's part), no one will think of it as a crime; but those whose intellect, more dynamic and more capable of great things, is such that it prefers pepper and arsenic, have good reasons for acting this way, without the least intention of imposing their mild rule on those who tremble at the sight of a shrew-mouse, or the telling expression of a cube's surfaces.
I speak from experience.
I have not come here to play an agitator's part.
And just as rotifera and tardigrades may be heated to boiling point without losing any of their vitality, it will be the same with you if you can cautiously assimilate the sour suppurative serosity which slowly emerges from the irritation which my interesting lucubrations cause.
Well, have they not managed to graft the tail from one rat's body on to another living rat's back?
Try then, similarly, to transport the several modifications of my cadaverous reason into your imagination.
But be cautious.
At the moment, as I write, new tremors are being felt in the intellectual atmosphere: it is simply a matter of having the courage to face them.
Why are you pulling that face?
And even accompanying it with a gesture of which it would take a long apprenticeship to imitate: you may be sure that habit is necessary in everything and since the instinctive revulsion you felt at the first pages has noticeably slackened off in intensity in inverse ratio to the attentiveness of your reading, like a boil which is lanced, it must be hoped, even though your head is still groggy, that your recovery will shortly enter its final phase.
There is no doubt at all in my mind that you are already verging on a complete recover; and yet your face is still very thin, alas!
But...courage!
you have an uncommon spirit within you, I love you, and I do not despair of your complete deliverance, provided you take a few medicines which will but hasten the disappearance of the last symptoms of the disease.
First, as an astringent and tonic food, you will tear off your mother's arms (if she is still alive), cut them up into little pieces, and you will then eat them in a single day with not the slightest trace of emotion on your face.
If your mother was too old, choose another surgical subject, younger, fresher, and consumptive, whose tarsal bones are good at springing from the ground when one is see-sawing: your sister, for example.
I cannot help feeling pity for her fate, and I am not one of those in whom cold enthusiasm merely puts on a show of goodness.
You and I will shed for her, for this beloved virgin (but I have no proofs that she is a virgin), two spontaneous tears, two tears of lead.
That will be all.
The most soothing potion I can suggest is a bowl full of granular and blennorhagic pus in which the following will previously have been dissolved: a hairy cyst from the ovary, a follicular chancre, an inflamed foreskin turned back from the gland by paraphimosis, and three red slugs.
If you follow my prescription, my poetry will welcome you with open arms, as when a louse by its embraces cuts off the root of a hair.
2  I saw an object on a mound before me.
I could not clearly make out its head; but already I guessed it was not of any common shape, without however being able to state precisely the exact proportions of its contours.
I did not dare approach this motionless column; and even if I had had the ambulatory legs of three thousand crabs (not to mention those used for prehension and the mastication of food) I would still have remained in the same place if an event, very trivial in itself, had not levied a heavy tribute on my curiosity, and made its dikes burst.
A beetle was using its mandibles and its antennae to roll along the ground a ball, the principal element of which was excremental matter, and rapidly advancing towards the aforesaid mound, going out of his way to make his determination to take that direction quite clear.
This articulated animal was not very much bigger than a cow!
If anyone should doubt what I am saying, let him come to me, and I will satisfy the most incredulous amongst you with reliable eye-witness accounts.
I followed at a distance, obviously intrigued.
What did he intend to do with that big black ball?
Oh reader, who are continually boasting of your insight (and not without reason), could you tell me?
But I do not wish to put your well-known passion for riddles to such a severe test.
Suffice it for you that the mildest punishment I can inflict on you is to point out that this mystery will not be revealed to you (it will be revealed to you) until later, at the end of your life, when you will open philosophic discussions with your death-pangs at your bed-side...and perhaps even at the end of the strophe.
The beetle had arrived at the foot of the mound.
I had fallen in behind it and was following it at the same pace, though I was still a long way from the scene of the action; for, just as stercoraceous birds, restless, as if they were always starving, thrive in the seas which lap the two poles, and only accidentally drift into temperate zones, so I, too, felt uneasy and began to walk forward very slowly.
But what was the corporeal substance towards which I was advancing?
I knew that the family of the pelicanides consists of four distinct genera: the gannet, the pelican, the cormorant, and the frigate-bird.
The greyish shape which appeared before me was not a gannet.
The plastic block I perceived was not a frigate-bird.
The crystallized flesh I observed was not a cormorant.
I saw him now, the man whose encephalon was entirely devoid of an annular protuberance!
I vaguely sought in the recesses of my memory for the torrid or glacial country in which I had already observed this long, wide, convex, arched beak with its marked unguicular edge, curved at the end; these scalloped sides; this lower mandible with its sections separate till near the tip; this interstice filled with membranous skin; this large, yellow and sacciform pouch, taking up all the throat and capable of distending considerable; and these very narrow, longitudinal, almost imperceptible nostrils in the groove at the base of the beak!
If this living being with its pulmonary and simple respiration and body decked with hairs had been entirely a bird down to the soles of its feet and not just as far as its shoulders, it would not then have been so difficult for me to recognize it: an easy thing to do, as you will see for yourself.
Only this time i shall spare myself the trouble; for to make my demonstration clear, I should need to have one of those birds placed on my own desk, even if it were only a stuffed one.
now I am not rich enough to buy one for myself.
Following a previous hypothesis step by step I should immediately have determined the true nature and found a place in the annals of natural history for him the nobility of whose sickly pose I admired.
With what satisfaction at not being completely ignorant of the secrets of his dual organism, and what eagerness to know more, I contemplated him in his permanent metamorphosis!
Though he did not have a human face, he seemed to me as handsome as the two long tentacular filaments of an insect; or, rather, as a hasty burial; or, again, as the law of the restoration of mutilated organs; and, above all, as an eminently putrescible liquid.
But, heedless of what was happening round about, the stranger kept looking straight ahead with his pelican-head.
Some other day I shall resume the final part of this story.
Yet I shall continue my narrative with sullen eagerness; for if on your part you are anxious to know what my imagination is driving at (would to heaven that it were only imagination!)
for my own part I have resolved to finish all at once (and not twice) what I wanted to tell you.
Although, nonetheless, no one has the right to accuse me of lack of courage.
But when one finds oneself in such circumstances, more than one will feel the throbbing of his heart against the palm of his hand.
A coasting ship's master, an old sailor and the hero of a dreadful story, has just died almost unknown in a little port in Brittany.
He was the captain of a sea-going ship, working for a privateer, and was away from home for a long time at a stretch.
Now after an absence of thirteen months he returned to the conjugal home at the moment when his wife, who was still confined, had just presented him with an heir whom he felt he had no right to acknowledge as his.
The captain gave no sign at all of astonishment or anger; he coldly asked his wife to get dressed and come for a walk with him along the town ramparts.
It was January.
The ramparts of St. Malo are very high and when the north wind blows even the bravest men cower.
The wretched woman obeyed, calm and resigned.
When she returned, she became delirious.
She died during the night.
But she was only a woman.
Whereas I, who am a man, in the face of no less a tragedy, I do not know if I had enough self-control to stop the muscles of my face from twitching!
As soon as the beetle had reached the foot of the mound, the man raised his arm towards the west (in the precise direction where a lamb-eating vulture and a Virginian eagle-owl were engaged in combat in the sky), wiped from his beak a long tear-drop which scintillated like a diamond, and said to the beetle: 'Miserable ball!
Have you not been pushing it for long enough?
You have not yet satisfied your passion for revenge; and already this woman, whose arms and legs you tied together with pearl necklaces to form a shapeless polyhedron so that you could drag her by her tarsal bones through valleys and over paths, over brambles and stones (let me approach, to see if it is still she) has seen her bones gouged with wounds, her limbs polished by the mechanical law of rotatory friction, and mingling into a congealed unit, her body presenting instead of its original outlines and curves the monotonous appearance of a homogeneous whole which but too much resembles, in the confusion of its several crushed elements, the mass of a sphere!
It is a long time now since she died; leave these remains on the ground and beware of increasing to irreparable proportions the rage which is consuming you; this is no longer an act of justice; for egotism, lurking in the teguments of your brow, slowly, like a phantom, raises the sheets which cover it.'
The lamb-eating vulture and the Virginian eagle-owl, carried away by the vicissitudes of their struggle, had now approached us.
The beetle trembled at these unexpected words and what at any other time would have been an insignificant movement this time became the distinguishing mark of a fury which knew no bounds; for he rubbed his hind legs dreadfully against the side of the elytra, making a shrill noise: 'Who do you think you are, pusillanimous creature?
It seems you have forgotten certain events in the past; you have not kept them in your memory, my brother.
This woman deceived us, one after the other.
You first, and then me.
It seems to me that this wrong must not (must not!)
disappear so easily from our memories.
So easily!
Your magnanimous nature allows you to forgive.
But do you know, despite the abnormal condition of this woman's atoms, reduced to a pulpy pate (it is not now a question of whether one would think, on a first investigation, that this body has noticeably increased in density as a result of the working of the two powerful wheels rather than by the effects of my ardent passion), whether she is not still alive?
Hold your tongue, and leave me to my revenge.'
He resumed his activity, and went away, pushing the ball in front of him.
When he had gone, the pelican exclaimed: 'This woman, by her magic power, has given me the head of a pelican and changed my brother into a beetle; perhaps she deserves even worse treatment than that which I have just described.'
And I, who was not sure that I was not dreaming, guessing from what I had heard the nature of the hostile relations which, above my head, joined the lamb-eating vulture and the Virginian eagle-owl in bloody combat, threw my head back like a cowl to give my lungs the maximum freedom and elasticity and, looking upwards, shouted to them: 'You two up there, ease your strife.
You are both right.
For she promised her love to both of you; therefore she has deceived you both.
But you are not the only ones.
Besides, she has deprived you of your human form, making cruel sport of your most holy sorrows.
And you would still hesitate to believe me?
Besides, she is dead; and the beetle has subjected her to a punishment which has left and ineffaceable mark, despite the compassion of him who was first deceived.'
At these words, they put an end to their quarrel, stopped tearing out each other's feathers and ripping off scraps of flesh: they were right to ask thus.
The Virginian eagle-owl, handsome as the memento which a dog leaves on the curb as it runs after its master, buried himself in the crevices of a ruined convent.
The lamb-eating vulture, lovely as the law of arrested chest development in adults whose propensity to growth is not in proportion to the quantity of molecules their organism can assimilate, vanished into the higher strata of the atmosphere.
The pelican, whose generous act of forgiveness had made a great impression on me because I found it unnatural, resuming on his mound the majestic impassivity of a lighthouse, as if to warn human mariners to pay attention to his example, and steer clear of the love of dark sorceresses, kept on looking straight ahead of him.
The beetle, lovely as the alcoholic's trembling hand, disappeared on the horizon.
Four more lives which could be erased from the book of life.
I pulled a whole muscle out of my left arm, for I no longer knew what I was doing, so moved was I at this quadruple misfortune.
And to think that I believed it was excremental matter.
What a fool I am.
3  The intermittent annihilation of human faculties.
Whatever you might be inclined to suppose, these are no mere words.
Or at least these are not words just like any others.
let him who thought that, by asking an executioner to flay him alive, he was doing an act of justice, raise his hand.
Let him who would expose his breast to the bullets of death hold up his head with a smile of delight.
My eyes will seek out the mark of the scar; my ten fingers will concentrate the totality of their attention on carefully feeling this eccentric's flesh; I will check to see if the spatterings of his brain have spurted on to the satin of my brow.
The man who would love such martyrdom is not to be found in their entire universe, is he?
I do not know what laughter is, never having experienced it myself.
And yet how imprudent it would be to maintain that my lips would not widen if it were granted to me to see him who claimed that, somewhere, that man exists.
What no one would wish for himself has fallen to my share by an unfair stroke of fate.
Not that my body is swimming in the lake of sorrow.
Let us pass on then.
But the mind dries up with the strain of continual and concentrated reflection; it croaks like the frogs on the marsh when a flight of ravenous flamingoes and starving herons swoops down to the rushes' edge.
Happy is he who sleeps peacefully in his bead of feathers plucked from the eider's breast, without noticing that he is giving himself away.
I have not slept for more than thirty years now.
Since the unutterable day of my birth, I have sworn implacable hatred to the somniferous bedplanks.
It was my own wish; let no one else be blamed.
Quickly, abandon the abortive suspicion.
Can you make out the pale garland on my brow?
She who wreathed it, with her thin fingers, was tenacity.
As long as any trace of searing sap flows in my bones like a torrent of molten metal, I shall not sleep.
Every night I force my livid eyes to stare at the stars through the panes of my windows.
To be surer of myself, a splinter of wood holds my two swollen eyelids apart.
When dawn appears she finds me in the same position, my body upright against the cold plaster of the wall.
However, I do sometimes happen to dream, but without for a moment losing the unshakeable consciousness of my personality and my capacity for freedom of movement; you must know that the nightmare which lurks in the phosphoric corners of the shadow, the fever which feels my face with its stump, each impure animal which raises its bleeding claw; well, it is my own will which makes them whirl around, to give a staple food to its perpetual activity.
In fact free will, a mere atom avenging itself for its weakness, does not fear to affirm with powerful authority that it does not count brutishness among its sons: he who sleeps is less than an animal castrated the night before.
Although insomnia drags these muscles, which already give off a scent of cypress, down into the pit, never will the white catacomb of my intellect open its sanctuaries to the eyes of the Creator.
A secret and noble justice, into the arms of which I instinctively fling myself, commands me to track down this ignoble punishment remorselessly.
Dreadful enemy of my imprudent soul, at the hour when the lantern is lit on the coast, I forbid my wretched back to lie on the dew of the sward.
Victoriously I repel the ambushes of the hypocritical poppy.
Consequently, it is clear that in this strange struggle my heart has checked his plans, starving man who eats himself.
Impenetrable as the giants, I have lived incessantly with my eyes staring wide open.
It is obvious that, at least during the day, anyone can offer useful resistance to the Great Exterior Object (who does not know his name?
); for then the will guards its defences with remarkable ferocity.
But as soon as the veil of night mists comes down, even over condemned men about to be hanged, oh, to see one's intellect in the sacrilegious hands of a stranger!
A pitiless scalpel probes among its undergrowth.
Conscience utters a long rattle of curses; the veil of modesty is cruelly torn away.
Humiliation!
Our door is open to the wild curiosity of the Celestial Bandit.
I have not deserved this ignominious punishment, hideous spy of my causality!
If I exist, I am not another.
I do not acknowledge this ambiguous plurality in myself.
I wish to reside alone in my inner deliberations.
Autonomy...or let me be changed into a hippopotamus.
Engulf yourself beneath the earth, anonymous stigma, and do not reappear before my haggard indignation.
My subjectivity and the Creator, that is too much for one brain.
When night spreads darkness over the passage of hours, who has not fought against the onset of sleep, in his bed soaking with glacial sweat?
This bed, luring the dying faculties to her breast, is nothing but a tomb made of planks of squared fir.
The will gradually gives way, as if in the presence of an invisible force.
A viscous was forms a thick layer over the crystalline lens.
The eyelids seek each other like two friends.
The body is now no more than a breathing corpse.
Finally, four huge stakes nail all the limbs on to the mattress.
And observe, I beg of you, that the sheets are but shrouds.
Here is the cresset in which the incense of religion burns.
Eternity roars like a distant sea and approaches with large strides.
The room has disappeared!
Sometimes, vainly trying to overcome the imperfections of the organism in the midst of the deepest sleep, the hypnotized senses perceive with astonishment that it is now only a block of sepulchre-stone, and reason admirably, with incomparable subtlety: 'To get up from this bed is a more difficult problem than one might think.
Sitting in a cart, I am being taken off towards the binarity of the guillotine posts.
Strange to say, my inert arm has knowingly taken on the stiffness of a chimney stack.
It is not at all good to dream that one is going towards the scaffold.'
Blood flows in wide waves over the face.
The breast repeatedly gives violent starts, heaves, and wheezes.
The weight of an obelisk suppresses the free expression of rage.
The real has destroyed the dreams of drowsiness!
Who does not know that when the struggle continues between the ego, full of pride, and the terrible encroachment of catalepsy, the deluded mind loses its judgment?
Gnawed by despair, it revels in its sickness, till it has conquered nature, and sleep, seeing its prey escape it, retreats, angry and ashamed, far away, never to return.
Throw a few ashes on my flaming eyeballs.
Do not stare at my never-ending eyes.
Do you understand the sufferings I endure?
(However, pride is gratified.)
As soon as night exhorts humans to rest, a man, whom I know, strides over the countryside.
I fear my resolved will succumb to the onset of old age.
Let it come, that fatal day when I fall asleep!
When I awake, my razor, making its way across my neck, will prove that, in fact, nothing was more real.
4  'But who can it be?...but who is it who dares like a conspirator to trail the rings of his body towards my black breast?
Whoever you are, eccentric python, by what pretext do you excuse you ridiculous presence?
