Generosity shares in the joys of others as if it were responsible for them.
Order dominates among the human species.
Reason and virtue are not the strongest.
Princes have few ungrateful subjects.
They give all they can.
We can love with all our heart those in whom we find great faults.
It would be impertinent to think that only imperfections have the right to please us.
Our weaknesses attach us to each other as much as that which is not virtue could do.
If our friends do favours for us, we think that, as friends, they owe us them.
We do not at all think they owe us their enmity.
He who was born to command, would command, even on the throne.
When our duties have exhausted us we think we have exhausted our duties.
We say that the heart of man can contain everything.
Everything lives by action.
Communication between beings, the harmony of the universe, come from action.
We find that this fecund law of nature is a vice in man.
He is obliged to obey it.
Unable to rest for a moment, we conclude he is left in his place.
We know what the sun and the heavens are.
We possess the secret of their movements.
In the hands of Elohim, a blind instrument, an imperceptible spring, the world compels our homage.
The revolutions of empires, the phases of time, the nations, the conquerors of knowledge, all this comes from a crawling atom, lasts only a day, destroys the spectacle of the universe through all the ages.
There is more truth than errors, more good qualities than bad, more pleasures than pains.
We like t examine our character.
We exalt ourselves above our species.
We adorn ourselves with the esteem which we lavish on it.
We think we cannot separate our own interest from that of mankind, that we cannot slander our race without compromising ourselves.
This ridiculous vanity has filled books with hymns in favour of nature.
Man is in disgrace with all those who think.
It is a question of who can accuse him of the most vices.
When was he not about to pick himself up, to piece together his virtues?
Nothing has been said.
We have come too early.
Man has existed for seven thousand years.
In the matter of morals, as in everything else, that which is the least good is the most highly thought of.
We have the advantage of working after the ancients, after the ablest of the moderns.
We are capable of friendship, justice, compassion, reason.
Oh my friends!
What then is the absence of virtue?
As long as my friends are still alive, I will not speak of death.
We are dismayed by our relapses and to see that our misfortunes have corrected our faults.
One can only judge the beauty of death by the beauty of life.
The three full stops make me shrug my shoulders with pity.
Does one really need that to prove that one is a man of wit, i.e.
an imbecile?
As if clarity was not as good as vagueness, in the matter of full stops!
