Adieu, until eternity, when we will not be together!
4  It was a spring day.
The birds were pouring forth their warbling songs, and human beings were going about their different duties, bathed in the holiness of toil.
Everything was working towards its destiny: trees, planets, dogfish.
Everything, that is, except the Creator!
He was lying stretched out on the road, with his clothes all torn.
His lower lip was hanging down like a heavy chain; his teeth had not been cleaned, and the blond waves of his hair were full of dust.
His body, benumbed by heavy sluggishness, pinned down on the stones, was making futile attempts to get up.
His strength had deserted him and he was lying there, weak as an earthworm, impassive as the bark of a tree.
Floods of wine filled the ruts which had been hollowed out by the nervous jerkings of his shoulders.
Pig-snouted brutishness covered him with its protective wings and cast loving glances at him.
His legs, their muscles slack, swept across the ground like two flapping sails.
Blood flowed from his nostrils: as he fell he had knocked his face against a post...He was drunk!
Horribly drunk!
Drunk as a bug which in one night has gorged three barrels of blood; his incoherent words resounded all around; I shall refrain from repeating them here, for even if the supreme drunkard has no self-respect, I must respect men.
Did you know that the Creator was drunk?
Have pity on the lip, soiled in the cups of debauch.
The hedgehog which was passing stuck his needles into his back and said: 'Take that.
The sun has run half its course.
Just wait till I call the cockatoo with its hooded beak.'
The woodpecker and the owl, who were passing, buried their necks in his belly and said: 'Take that.
What are you up to on this earth?
Is it to offer the spectacle of this lugubrious comedy to animals?
But I promise that neither the mole, nor the cassowary, nor the flamingo will imitate you.'
The ass, which was passing by, gave him a kick in the temple and said: 'Take that.
What had I done to you to deserve such long ears?
Even the crickets despise me.'
The toad, which was passing by, spat a fountain of slime on to his brow and said: 'Take that.
If you had not given me such big bulbous eyes and I had seen you in the state you are in now, I would chastely have hidden the beauty of your limbs beneath a shower of ranunculi, myositis, and camelias, so that no on would see you.'
The lion, who was passing by, inclined his royal head and said: 'For my part, I respect him, even though his radiance now seems to be eclipsed.
You others, so proud and superior, are mere cowards, since you attacked him while he was asleep.
How would you like to be in his place and to have to endure from passers-by the insults which you have not spared him'?
Man, who was passing by, stopped before the unrecognizable Creator; and for three full days, to the applause of the crab-louse and the viper, he shat on his august face!
Woe to man, for this insult; for he did not respect the enemy, sprawled out in a mixture of blood and wine; defenceless, and almost lifeless!
Then the sovereign God; awoken at last by all these mean jibes, got up as best he could; staggering, he went and sat down on a stone, with his two hands hanging down like the consumptive's two testicles; and cast a glassy, lack-lustre glance over all of nature, which belonged to him.
Oh human beings, you are enfants terribles; but let us spare, I implore you, this great being who has not yet finished sleeping off the vile liquor and who has not got enough strength left to stand up straight; he has slumped down on to the boulder, on which he is sitting like a weary traveler.
Look closely at the passing beggar; he saw the dervish stretching out a thin and hungry hand and, without knowing to whom he was giving alms, threw a piece of bread into the hand of him who was begging for mercy.
The Creator expressed his gratitude with a nod of the head.
Oh!
you will never know how difficult it can be to keep on holding the reins of the universe!
Sometimes the blood rushes to one's head when one is seriously trying to conjure a last comet from nothingness, and with it a new race of spirits.
The intellect, stirred to the depths, yields like a beaten man and, for once in its life, lapses into the aberrations which you have witnessed!
5  A red lantern, the flag of vice, hanging from the end of a tringle, rocking its carcass, lashed by the four winds, above a massive, worm-eaten door.
A dingy corridor, smelling of human thighs, led to a yard where cocks and hens, scrawnier than their own wings, were looking for food.
On the wall which surrounded the yard, on the east side, several very small openings had been made and were closed off by a metal grating.
Moss covered this main part of the building which had no doubt once been a convent and was now used as a residence for all those women who, every day, showed the inside of their vagina to the clients in return for a little money.
I was on a bridge, the piers of which went down into the muddy water of the moat.
From its raised surface I contemplated the old ramshackle building and I could observe the minutest details of its inner architecture.
Sometimes a grating would rise with a creak, as if by the impulsion of a hand which did violence to the metal; a man's head would appear in the half-open space; then his shoulders emerged with flakes of plaster falling on them, followed in this laborious extraction by his cobweb- covered body.
Putting his hands like a crown on the filth of all kinds which pressed the ground with its weight, his feet still caught in the twists of the grating, he resumed his natural posture and went to dip his hands in a rickety bucket whose soapy water had seen entire generations come and go; then he made off as quickly as possible, away from these suburban side-streets, to breathe the purer air nearer the town-centre.
When the client had gone, a completely naked woman came out in the same manner, and went over towards the same bucket.
Then the cocks and the hens rushed up in a crowd from all parts of the yard, attracted by the smell of semen, forced her on to the ground despite her vigorous resistance, swarmed all over her body as if it were a dung-heap and tore at the flaccid lips of her swollen vagina with their beaks until the blood came out.
The hens and cocks, sated, went back to scratch around in the grass of the yard; the woman, now clean, got up, trembling and covered in wounds, as when one awakes after a nightmare.
She dropped the cloth she had brought to wipe her legs with; no longer needing the communal bucket, she went back to her lair to await the next client.
At this sight I, too, wanted to enter that house.
I was about to come down from the bridge when I saw, on the coping of the column, the following inscription in Hebrew characters: 'You who cross this bridge, do not go in there.
There crime sojourns with vice; one day, the friends of a young man who had passed through the fatal door waited in vain for his return.'
My curiosity overcame my fear; a few moments later, I was standing before a grating of solid, intercrossing metal bars, with narrow spaces between them.
I wanted to look inside, through that dark screen.
At first I could see nothing; but I was soon able to make out the objects in the dark room by means of the rays of the sun, which was setting and would soon disappear on the horizon.
The first and only thing which struck my sight was a blond stick consisting of horns which fitted into one another.
The stick was moving!
It was walking in the room!
Its jerking was so violent that the floor shook; with its two ends it was making huge holes in the wall and seemed like a ram battering the gates of a besieged town.
Its efforts were in vain; the walls were made of freestone, and when it hit the wall I saw it bend like a steel blade and rebound like an elastic ball.
Then this stick was not made of wood!
I noticed later that it coiled and uncoiled easily, like an eel.
Although it was as tall as a man, it did not stand upright.
Sometimes it would try and then its ends could be seen through the grating.
It was leaping up wildly and violently, then falling to the ground again.
It could not break down the obstacle.
I began to look at it more and more carefully, and I saw that it was a hair!
After its great struggle with the matter which surrounded it like a prison, it went and rested against the bed which was in the room, with its root on the carpet and its tip against the head of the bed.
After a few moments of silence, during which I heard broken sobs, it raised its voice and spoke thus: 'My master has left me in this room and forgotten all about me.
He has not come back to look for me.
He got up from this bed on which I am lying, combed his perfumed hair and did not realize that I had already fallen to the ground.
Yet if he had picked me up, there would have been nothing surprising in such a simple act of justice.
He has abandoned me in the confines of this room after being enfolded in a woman's arms.
And what a woman!
The sheets are still damp from their warm, moist embraces and bear, in their untidiness, the stamp of a night of love...' And I wondered who his master could be!
And I pressed my face even harder against the grating.
'While all of nature was slumbering chastely, he coupled with a degraded woman in lewd, impure caresses.
He demeaned himself so far as to allow those withered cheeks, despicable in their habitual shamelessness, to approach his august face.
He did not blush, but I blushed for him.
There is no doubt that he was happy to spend a night with such a spouse.
The woman, struck by his majestic appearance, seemed to be enjoying incomparable delights, and kissed his neck madly.'
And I wondered who his master could be!
And I pressed my face even harder against the grating!
'During this time, irritant pustules began to appear and grow in number as a result of his unaccustomed eagerness for fleshly pleasures; I felt them surrounding my roots with their deadly gall and imbibing with their suckers the generative substance of my life.
The more they abandoned themselves to their wild, insane movements, the more I felt my strength diminishing.
At the moment when their bodily desires were reaching the paroxysm of passion, I noticed that my root had slumped, like a soldier wounded by a bullet.
The torch of life had gone out in me and I fell from his illustrious head like a dead branch; I fell to the ground, without courage, without strength, without vitality; but with deep pity for him to whom I had belonged; but with eternal sorrow for his willful aberration!'
And I wondered who his master could be!
And I pressed my face even harder against the grating!
'If he had at least taken to himself the innocent breast of a virgin!
She would have been worthier of him, and the degradation would not have been so great.
With his lips he kisses that mud-covered brow, on which men have trampled, full of dust...he breathes in, with his shameless nostrils, the emanations of those two moist armpits!...I saw the membranes of the latter shrink in shame while, for their part, his nostrils shrunk from the infamous inhalation.
But neither he nor she paid any attention to the solemn warnings of the armpits, to the dull, pale revulsion of the nostrils.
She raised her arms higher and he, thrusting more strongly, buried his face deeper into their hollow.
I was obliged to be a party to this profanation.
I was obliged to be a spectator at this unspeakable contortion; to be present at the unnatural alloying of these two beings, whose different natures were separated by an immeasurable gulf...' And I wondered who his master could be!
And I pressed my face even harder against the grating!
'When he was sick of breathing his woman, he wanted to wrench off her muscles one by one; but as she was a woman, he forgave her, preferring to make one of his own sex suffer.
He called in a young man from an adjoining cell.
This young man had come to spend a few carefree moments with one of these women; he was enjoined to come and stand one step from his face.
I had been lying on the ground for a long time now.
Not being strong enough to get up on my burning root, I could not see what they did.
All I know is that the young man was hardly within arm's reach when bits of flesh began to fall at the feet of the bed and came to rest on both sides of me.
They told me in hushed tones that my master's claws had ripped them off the adolescent's shoulders.
The latter, after some hours in which he had struggled against one of greater strength, got up from the bed and withdrew majestically.
He was literally flayed from head to foot; he trailed his skin, which had been turned inside out, over the flagstones of the room.
He said that his own character was full of goodness; that he liked to believe that his fellow-beings were good too; for that reason he had agreed to the wish of the distinguished stranger who had called him in; but that he would never have expected to be flayed by such a torturer.
By such a torturer, he added after a pause.
At last he went towards the grating which compassionately opened to ground level in the presence of this body deprived of an epidermis.
Without abandoning his skin, which could still be useful to him, if only as a cloak, he was trying to escape from this cut-throat; once he left the room, I could no longer see if he had had the strength to reach the gate which let out of that building.
Oh, how the hens and the cocks moved respectfully away from the long trail of blood on the drenched ground, despite their hunger!'
And I wondered who his master could be!
And I pressed my face even harder against the grating!
'Then he who should have thought more of his dignity and his righteousness sat up and leant, with some difficult, on his tired elbows.
Alone, dark, disgusted, and hideous!
He dressed slowly.
The nuns, buried for centuries in the convent's catacombs, having been awoken with a start by the noises of that dreadful night, the crashing and the shaking in the cell above the vaults, now held hands, and came and formed a funeral circle around him.
And while he looked for the ruined remnants of his former splendour; while he washed his hands with spittle, then wiping them in his hair (for it was better to wash them with spittle than not to wash them at all, after and entire night of vice and crime), they intoned the laments for the dead, which are sung when someone has been buried.
And in fact the youth was not to survive the tortures inflicted on him by a divine hand, and his agonies came to an end during the nuns' songs.'
I remembered the inscription on the column; I understood what had become of the pubescent dreamer whose friends had been waiting for him since his disappearance...And I wondered who his master could be!
And I pressed my face even harder against the grating!
'The walls opened to let him pass; the nuns, seeing him soar into the sky with wings till then hidden beneath his emerald robe, returned to their places beneath the lid of the tomb.
He has returned to his celestial dwelling, leaving me here; it is not fair.
The other hairs are still on his head; and I am lying in this dismal room on a floor covered with clotted blood and bits of dried meat; this room is damned since he came in; nobody enters; yet I am locked in.
It is all over now.
I shall never again see the legions of angels marching in thick phalanxes, nor the stars moving in the gardens of harmony.
Well...let it be...I shall be able to bear my woe with resignation.
But I shall not fail to tell men what happened in this cell.
I shall give them permission to discard their dignity like a useless coat, since they have my master's example before them; I shall advise them to suck the verge of crime, since another has already done so.'
The hair stopped speaking...And I wondered who his master could be!
And I pressed my face even harder against the grating!...Immediately, thunder clapped; a phosphorescent light penetrated into the room.
In spite of myself I stepped back, warned by an inexplicable instinct; although I had moved away from the grating, I heard another voice, but this time insinuating, quiet, for fear of being heard: 'Stop leaping up and down!
Be quiet...be quiet...if anyone should hear you!
I will put you back with the other hairs; but first wait for the sun to set on the horizon, that night may cover your steps...I have not forgotten you; but you would have been seen as you left, and I would have been compromised.
Oh!
if only you knew how much I have suffered since that moment!
When I returned to heaven, my archangels surrounded me inquisitively; they did not want to ask me the motive for my absence.
They, who had never dared to look up at me, cast looks of utter amazement on my downcast face as they tried to solve the riddle; although they could not see into the heart of this mystery, their whispered thoughts expressed the fear that an unusual change had come about in me.
They were shedding silent tears; and they had a vague sense that I was no longer the same, that I was now inferior to my previous self.
They wanted to know what disastrous resolution could have made me cross the frontiers of heaven and come down to earth to indulge in pleasures which they themselves despised.
They noticed on my brow a drop of sperm and a drop of blood.
The first had shot from the thighs of the courtesan!
The second had spurted from the martyr's veins!
Odious stigmata!
Indestructible rosaces!
My archangels found the flaming remnants of my opal tunic in the thickets of space, floating above the wide-eyed people of the earth.
They could not piece it together again, and my body remains naked before their innocence; a memorable punishment for abandoned virtue.
See the furrows which have hollowed out a bed in my discoloured cheeks: it is the drop of sperm and the drop of blood, slowly oozing down over my dry wrinkles.
Reaching my upper lip, they make an enormous effort and penetrate the sanctuary of my mouth, attracted, like a lover, by the irresistible throat.
They are suffocating me, these implacable drops.
Until now I had considered myself the Almighty; but no; I must bow my head before remorse which cries out to me: "You are only a wretch!"
Stop leaping up and down!
Be quiet...be quiet...if anyone should hear you!
but first wait for the sun to set on the horizon, that night may cover your steps...I have seen Satan, my great enemy, rouse himself from his larva-like torpor and, lifting up the bony tangle of his massive frame, harangue his assembled troops; as I deserved, he poured scorn upon me.
He said he was very surprised that his proud rival, caught in the act by one of his perpetual spying missions which had at last met with success, could so debase himself as to kiss the dress of human debauch, after a long voyage over the reefs of ether; and that he should brutally torture and kill a member of the human race.
He said that this young man, crushed in the machinery of my refined tortures, might have been a genius; might have consoled men on this earth for the blows of misfortune with wondrous songs of poetry and courage.
He said that the nuns of the convent-brothel were no longer quiet in their graves; but prowled around the yard, gesticulating like automata, crushing buttercups and lilacs underfoot; that their indignation had driven them mad, but not so made as to forget the cause of the malady which afflicted their brains...(See them advancing, dressed in their white shrouds; they do not speak; they hold hands; their disheveled hair falls on their naked shoulders; a bouquet of black flowers in their bosom.
Nuns, go back to your vaults.
Night has not yet completely fallen; it is only evening twilight...Oh hair, you can see for yourself; on all sides I am attacked by the maddening feeling of my depravity!)
He said that the Creator, who boasts of being Providence for all that exists, has behaved, to say the least, with great negligence, in presenting such a spectacle to the starry worlds; for he clearly expressed his plan to report to all the orbiting planets on how, by my own example, I maintain virtue and goodness in the immensity of my realms.
He said that the great esteem in which he had held such a noble rival had vanished from his imagination; and that he would prefer to put his hand on a young girl's breast, although this is an act of execrable wickedness, than to spit in my face, covered in three layers of mingled blood and sperm; he would rather not defile his slimy spittle by such an act.
He said he justly felt superior to me, not in vice, but in virtue and modesty; not in crime, but in justice; he said I should be strung up for my countless faults; that I should be burned slowly over a blazing fire and that I should then be thrown into the sea, provided the sea was willing to receive me.
That since I boasted of being just, I, who had condemned him to eternal pain for a slight revolt which had not had grave consequences, then I ought to be severely just with myself, and judge my conscience impartially, laden as it was with heinous crimes!...Stop leaping up and down!
Be quiet...be quiet...if anyone should hear you!
I will put you back with the other hairs; but first wait for the sun to set on the horizon, that night may cover your steps.'
He paused for a moment; although I could not see him at all, I judged from the length of the pause that a surge of emotion was heaving in his breast, like a whirlwind arousing a family of whales.
Divine breast, defiled one day by the bitter touch of a shameless woman's nipples!
Royal soul, which in a moment of forgetfulness abandoned itself to the crab of debauchery, to the octopus of weakness, to the shark of individual abjection, to the boa of amorality, and to the monstrous snail of imbecility!
The hair and its master hugged one another close, like two friends who meet one another again after a long absence.
The Creator continued, the accused appearing before his own tribunal: 'And what will men think of me, of whom they thought so highly, when they find out about the aberrations of my behaviour, my sandals' hesitant march over the muddy labyrinths of matter, the direction of the dark route I took over the stagnant waters and damp rushes of the pool where dark-footed crime, shrouded in fog, turns blue and roars...I see that i will have to work hard to rehabilitate myself in the future and regain their esteem.
I am the Almighty; and yet in one respect I am inferior to the men I created with a grain of sand!
Tell them a bold lie, tell them that I have never left heaven, where I am constantly enclosed, with all the cares of the throne, among the marbles, the statues and the mosaics of my palaces.
I appeared before the celestial sons of mankind and I said to them: "Hunt evil away from your cottages, and let the cloak of good come in to your hearths.
He who lays a hand on one of his fellow men, fatally wounding him in the chest with a murderous knife, let him not hope for any mercy from me, let him fear the scales of my justice.
He will go and hide his sorrow in the woods; but the rustling of the leaves through the grove will sing the ballad of remorse in his ears; and he will flee those parts, stung in the hips by bushes, holly, and blue-thistles, his rapid steps caught up in the supple creepers, bitten by scorpions.
He will make for the pebbles of the beach; but the rising tide with its spray and its dangerous surge will tell him that it is not unaware of his past; and he will rush blindly towards the cliff tops, while the strident equinoctial winds, whistling down into the natural caves of the gulf and the huge holes gouged in the rock-face, bellow like the huge herds of buffalo on the pampas.
The lighthouses will pursue him to the northern limits with their sarcastic lights, and the will o' the wisps of the maremma, simple burning lights dancing in a fantastic style, will make the hairs of his pores shiver and make the iris of his eyes green.
Let modesty thrive in your huts, and may it be safe in the shade of your fields.
Thus will your sons become handsome and bow down in gratitude to their parents; if not, sickly and stunted as the scrolls of parchment in libraries, they will be led to revolt, and will step forward and curse the day of their birth and the lewd clitoris of their mother.
How can men be brought to obey these strict laws if the legislator himself refuses to be bound by them...and my shame is as immense as eternity.'
I heard the hair humbly forgive him for confining him, since his master had acted from discretion, and not from carelessness; and the last pale ray of the sun which gave me light disappeared into the ravines of the mountain.
Turning towards it, I saw it coil round, like a shroud...'Stop leaping up and down!
Be quiet...be quiet...if anyone should hear you!
He will put you back with the other hairs.
And now that the sun has set on the horizon, cynical old man and soft strand of hair, creep away from the brothel, while night, spreading its shadow over the convent, covers the lengthening of your furtive steps over the plain.'
Then the louse, suddenly emerging from behind a promontory, says to me, brandishing its claws: 'What do you think of that?'
But I did not want to reply.
I withdrew and came back on to the bridge.
I effaced the original inscription, and replaced it with this: 'It is painful to keep such a secret, like a dagger, in one's heart; but I swear never to reveal what I witnessed when, for the first time, I entered this terrible dungeon.'
I threw the knife I had used to carve out these letters over the parapet.
And making a few rapid reflections on the character of the Creator who was in his infancy and who was destined, alas!
to make mankind suffer for quite a while (eternity is long) whether by his own acts of cruelty or by the ignoble spectacles of the chancres caused by a great vice, I closed my eyes like a drunken man at the thought of having such a being as my enemy, and sadly went on my way through the mazes of the streets.
FOURTH BOOK   1  A man, a stone, or a tree is going to begin this fourth song.
When the foot slips on a frog which it has crushed, one has a feeling of disgust; but when one merely brushes against the human body with one's hand, the skin of one's fingers cracks like fragments of a block of mica smashed by hammer-blows; and just as, on ship's deck, the heart of a shark, though it has been dead for an hour, goes on beating with dogged vitality, so too our entrails are stirred to the depth long after that touch.
Such is the horror which man inspires in his fellow-beings!
Perhaps in suggesting this I am mistaken; but it may be that I am right.
I know, I can conceive of a malady more terrible than the puffiness of the eyes which comes from long hours of meditation on the strange character of man: but I am still seeking it...and I have not been able to find it!
I do not think I am less intelligent than the next man, but who would dare to declare that I have succeeded in my investigation?
What a lie his lips would be telling!
The ancient temple of Denderah is one and a half hours' journey from the left bank of the Nile.
Today countless swarms of wasps have taken possession of its gutters and cornices.
They fly around the columns like the thick waves of a head of black hair.
Sole inhabitants of the cold porch, they guard the entrance to the vestibule as if it were a hereditary right.
I compare the buzzing of their metallic wings to the incessant crashing of ice-floes flung against one another when the ice breaks up in polar seas.
But when I consider the conduct of him who providence gave the throne of this earth three pinions of my sorrow make a far louder hum!
When, after eighty years' absence, a comet reappears in some part of the heavens, it displays its brilliant nebulous trail for men and for crickets to behold.
No doubt it is unaware of this long journey; the same is not true of me: sitting up in bed while the jagged shapes of a gloomy and arid horizon loom up in force from the depths of my soul, I give myself up to dreams of compassion, and I blush for man!
The sailor, cut by the blasts of the north wind, hurries back to his hammock when he has finished his night watch: why am I not granted this consolation?
The thought that I have willfully fallen as low as my fellow-beings, that I have less right than the next man to bewail our fate, which remains shackled to the hardened crust of a planet, or the essence of our perverse souls, pierces me like a massive nail.
We have seen whole families wiped out by fire-damp explosions; but the pain they felt must have been short, since death is almost instantaneous, amid the ruins and the noxious gasses...I...I still exist, like basalt.
In the middle as at the beginning of their lives angels still look the same: yet it is ages since I looked myself.
Man and I, confined within the bounds of our understanding, as often a lake is amid a circle of coral islands, instead of joining forces to defend ourselves against chance and misfortune, avoid each other, and, trembling with hate, take opposite roads, as if we had stabbed one another with the point of a dagger.
You would think that each one realizes the scorn the other feels for him; motivated by a feeling of relative dignity, we are anxious not to mislead our adversary; each one keeps to himself and is aware that peace, if it were proclaimed, would be impossible to keep.
Well, then, let it be!
Let my war against man go on for eternity, since each recognizes his own degradation in the other...since we are both mortal enemies.
Whether I am destined to win a disastrous victory or to succumb, the struggle will be good: I alone against mankind.
I shall not use weapons made of wood or iron; I shall spurn all the minerals of the earth; the powerful and seraphic resonance of the harp will be a formidable talisman in my hands.
In several ambushes man, the sublime monkey, has already pierced my breast with his porphyry lance: a soldier does not show his wounds, however glorious they may be.
This terrible war will bring sorrow to both sides: two friends stubbornly seeking to destroy one another, what a scene!
2  Two columns, which it was not difficult, far less impossible, to take for baobabs, could be seen in the valley, bigger than two pin.
In fact, they were two huge towers.
Now though, at first sight, two baobobs do not look like two pins, or even like two towers, nevertheless, by adroit use of the strings of prudence, one may affirm, without fear of error (for if this affirmation were accompanied by the least scrap of such fear, it would be no affirmation; although a single name expresses these two phenomena of the soul whose characteristics are sufficiently well-defined as not to be easily confused), one may affirm that a baobob is not so very different from a column that comparison between these two architectural forms should be forbidden...or geometrical forms...or both...or neither...or rather high and massive forms.
I have just discovered, I do not deny it, the epithets appropriate to the nouns column and baobob: and I want you to know that it is not without a feeling of joy mingled with pride that I make this observation to those who, after raising their eyelids, have made the very praiseworthy resolution to look through these pages, while the candle burns if it is night, while the sun casts its light, if it is day.
And yet, even if a higher power were to command us, in the clearest possible terms, to cast this judicious comparison, which everyone has been able to relish with impunity, into the abyss of chaos, even then, and especially then, let us not lose sight of this main axiom, that the habits acquired over years through books and contact with one's fellows, and the innate character of each individual, which develops in rapid efflorescence all these would impose on the human mind the irreparable stigma of relapse into the criminal use (criminal, that is, if we momentarily and spontaneously take the point of view of the superior power) of a rhetorical figure which several people despise, but many adore.
If the reader finds this sentence too long, let him accept my apologies; but let him expect no groveling on my part.
I may acknowledge my mistakes; but I will not make them more serious by my cowardice.
My reasoning will sometimes jingle the bells of madness and the serious appearance of what is, after all, merely grotesque (although, according to some philosophers, it is quite difficult to tell the difference between the clown and the melancholic man, life itself being but a comic tragedy or a tragic comedy); however, each of us is free to kill flies and even rhinoceri from time to time as a relaxation from too demanding labours.
The speediest way of killing flies, though it may not be the best, is this: you crush them between the first two fingers of your hand.
The majority of writers who have gone into this subject have calculated, apparently convincingly, that it is preferable in several cases to cut off their heads.
If anyone should reproach me for speaking of such an absolutely trivial subject as pins, I should like him to note, without bias, that the greatest effects are often produced by the smallest causes.
And without straying more from the setting of this piece of paper, can one not see that the laborious piece of literature which I have been composing since the beginning of this strophe would perhaps be relished less if were based on a problem in chemistry or internal pathology.
Besides, in nature there all kinds of tastes; and when at the beginning I compared the columns to the pins with such exactitude (certainly I did not think I would one day be reproached for it), I based this on the laws of optics which have proved that the further away from an object one stands, the smaller the image of its reflection on the retina.
Thus it is that what our mind's tendency to farce takes for a wretched attempt at wit is simply, in the author's own mind, an important truth, solemnly proclaimed!
Oh that mad philosopher who burst into laughter when he saw an ass eating a fig!
I am not making this up; ancient books have recounted in the fullest detail this willful and shameful derogation of human nobility.
I cannot laugh.
I have never been able to laugh, though I have tried to do so several times.
It is very difficult to learn to laugh.
Or rather I think that a feeling of loathing for this monstrosity is an essential feature of my character.
Now I have witnessed something even more outrageous: I have seen a fig eating as ass!
And yet I did not laugh; honestly, not a muscle on my face moved.
The need to cry took such violent possession of me that my eyes shed a tear.
'Nature!
Nature!'
I cried, sobbing.
'The hawk tears the sparrow to pieces, the fig eats the ass, and the tapeworm devours man.'
Before deciding to go on, I wonder if I have spoken of the way to kill flies.
I have, have I not?
And yet it is equally true that I had not previously spoken of the destruction of rhinoceri.
If certain of my friends were to claim the contrary, I would not listen to them and I would bear in mind that praise and flattery are two great stumbling-blocks.
However, in order to appease my conscience as far as possible, I cannot help observing that this dissertation on the rhinoceros would carry me beyond the limits of patience and composure and would probably (let us even be so bold as to say certainly) daunt the present generation.
To think of not speaking of the rhinoceros after the fly!
At least as a passable excuse I ought to have mentioned (but I did not!)
this unpremeditated omission, which will not surprise those who have studied in depth the real and inexplicable contradictions which abide in the lobes of the human brain.
Nothing is unworthy of a great and simple understanding; the least phenomenon in nature, if there is anything mysterious about it, can be an inexhaustible subject of reflection for the wise man.
If someone sees an ass eating a fig or a fig eating an ass (these two circumstances do not often occur, unless it be in poetry), you may be sure that after reflecting for two or three minutes on what course to adopt, he will abandon the path of virtue and start laughing like a cock!
Yet it is not exactly proven that cocks deliberately open their mouths to imitate men and to grin anxiously.
I am applying to birds the same word grimace that we use for men.
The cock does not change his nature, not because he is unable to do so, but because he is too proud.
Teach them to read and they refuse.
No parrot would go into such raptures at its own ignorant and inexcusable weakness.
Oh execrable debasement!
how like a goat one looks when one laughs!
The smooth calmness of the brow has disappeared and given way to enormous fish-eyes which (isn't it deplorable?
)...which...start to shine like lighthouses!
It will often happen that I solemnly make the most clownish statements...I do not consider this a sufficiently decisive motive for me to open my mouth wide!
I cannot help laughing, you will reply; I accept this absurd explanation, but then let it be a melancholy laugh.
Laugh, but cry at the same time.
If even that is impossible, urinate; but I warn you that some kind of liquid is necessary here, to counteract the dryness that laughter, with its creased features, bears in its womb.
For my part, I shall not be put out by the ludicrous chuckles and strange bellowings of those who always find fault with a character which is not like their own, because it is one of the countless intellectual variation which, without departing from his primordial model, God created for the guidance of this bony frame of ours.
Until our times, poetry has taken the wrong path; rising up to the sky or crawling along the ground, it has failed to recognize the principles of its existence and has with good reason been scorned by honest people.
It has not been modest...and modesty is the noblest quality which can exist in an imperfect being!
I wish to display my good qualities; but I am not hypocritical enough to hide my vices.
Laughter, evil, pride and madness will appear in turn along with sensibility and the love of justice, and will be an example, to the utter astonishment of all men: everyone will recognize himself in my work, not as he ought to be, but as he is.
And perhaps this simple ideal which my imagination has conceived will yet surpass all that has been held most magnificent and most sacred in poetry up to now.
For if I let my vices seep through in these pages, people will believe even more in the virtues which shine through in them; and I shall put such high and glorious haloes around those virtues that the greatest geniuses of the future will be sincerely grateful to me.
Thus hypocrisy will be categorically hunted out of my abode.
And there will be impressive evidence of power in my songs, in the way I disdain received ideas.
He sings for himself alone, not for his fellow-beings.
He does not put the measure of his inspiration in the scales of human judgement.
Free as the tempest, one day he ran aground on the indomitable strand of his terrible will.
He fears nothing, unless it be himself.
In his supernatural combats he will attack man and the Creator to his advantage, as when the swordfish thrusts its sword deep into the whale's belly: accursed be him by his children and by my fleshless hand who persists in not understanding the implacable kangaroos of laughter and the bold lice of caricature!...The two huge towers could be seen in the valley; I said so at the beginning.
Multiplying them by two, the result was four...but I could not see very clearly the necessity of this arithmetical operation.
I continued on my way, my face flushed with fever, and cried out incessantly: 'No...no...I cannot see very clearly the necessity of this arithmetical operation!'
I had heard the clanking of chains and groans of pain.
May no one find it possible, when passing through that place, to multiply the towers by two, that the result be four!
There are some who suspect that I love mankind as much as if I were its own mother and had borne it nine months in my perfumed womb; that is why I never go back to the valley where two units of the multiplicand stand!
3  A gallows rose up from the ground.
A yard above the ground a man was hanging from his hair, with his hands tied behind him.
To increase his agony, and make him want anything but to have his hands tied, his feet had been left to dangle freely.
The skin of his brow had been so stretched by his hanging that his face, condemned by the circumstances to the absence of its natural expression, looked like the stony concretion of a stalactite.
For three days he had endured this torture.
He shouted out: 'Who will untie my hands?
Who will untie my hair?
I am dislocated by movements which only separate my head further from the root of my hair.
Hunger and thirst are not the main reasons which prevent me from sleeping.
It is impossible for me to live for more than an hour.
Someone to slit my throat with a sharpened stone!'
Each word was prefaced and followed by vehement shrieks.
I darted from the bush behind which I was sheltering and went towards the puppet or piece of lard hanging from the yardarm.
But now two drunken women came dancing along from the other side.
One was carrying a bag and two whips with ropes of lead and the other was carrying a barrel full of pitch, and two paint-brushes.
The greying hair of the older woman blew in the wind like the tatters of a torn sail and the legs of the other one clacked like the beating of a tunny on the deck of a ship.
Their eyes shone with such a strong black flame that I did not think at first that these two women belonged to my species.
They were laughing with such selfish unconcern and their features were so loathsome that I did not for a moment doubt that I had before my eyes the two most hideous specimens of the human race.
Once more I hid behind the bush, and kept quiet, like the acanthophorus serraticornis, which only shows its head above its nest.
They were approaching with the speed of the tide; putting my ears to the ground, the sound which I clearly heard brought me the lyrical clatter of their walk.
When the two female orang-outangs arrived beneath the gallows, they sniffed the air for a few seconds.
They showed by their absurd gestures the truly remarkable extent of their amazement at the result of their experiment, when they noticed that nothing had changed in these parts: the denouement of death had not, in conformity with their wishes, occurred.
They had not deigned to look up to see if the mortadella was still in the same place.
One of them said: 'Is it possible that you are still breathing?
You are hard to kill, my well-beloved husband.'
And as when two choristers, in a cathedral, sing the alternate verses of a psalm, the second one answered: 'You do not want to die then, my gracious boy.
Tell me how you have managed (surely it was by some spell) to scare off the vultures?
Your body really has got so thin.
The wind blows it like a lantern.'
They each took a brush and tarred the hanging man's body...they each took a whip and raised their arms...I was admiring (it was absolutely impossible to do otherwise) the powerful accuracy with which the blades of metal, instead of sliding along the surface, as when one is fighting a negro and making vain efforts, as in a nightmare, to grab him by the hair, went, thanks to the pitch, right into the flesh, which was marked with furrows as deep as the bones' resistance would reasonably permit.
I refrained from the temptation of taking pleasure in this excessively curious spectacle, which was less profoundly comic than one had the right to expect.
And yet despite the good resolutions I had made in advance, how could I not acknowledge the strength of these women, the muscles of their arms?
Their skill, which consisted in striking the most sensitive parts, will not be mentioned by me, unless my ambition is to aspire to total truth!
Unless, putting my lips against one another (not everyone is unaware that this is the most common manner of bringing about this pressure).
I prefer to maintain a tear-swollen and mysterious silence, the painful manifestation of which would be unable to hide, not only as well as but even better than my words (for I do not believe I am mistaken, although one must not, at the risk of failing to comply with the most elementary rules of cleverness, deny the hypothetical possibilities of error) the baleful results caused by the rage which sets the dry metacarpi and the strong joints to work: even if one were to take the viewpoint of the implacable observer and experienced moralist (it is almost quite important that you should know that I do not at least entirely admit this more or less fallacious restriction), even then doubt would not be able to spread its roots in this matter; since I do not at the moment suppose him to be in the hands of a supernatural power and he would inevitably perish, though not suddenly perhaps, due to the lack of a sap which fulfilled the simultaneous conditions of being nutritious and free of poisonous matter.
It is understood (if not, then do not read me) that in saying this I am merely introducing the timid personality of my own opinion: yet far be from me the thought of renouncing rights which are indisputable!
And I most assuredly do not intend to take exception to this statement in which the criterion of certitude glitters, that there is a simpler means of reaching agreement; this would consist, I express it in but a few words, which are worth more than a thousand, in not discussing anything; and this is far more difficult to put into practice than the generality of men would like to think.
Discuss is the grammatical word, and many persons will find that they should not contradict what I have just set down on paper without a voluminous dossier of proofs.
But the matter is significantly different, if one may allow one's instinct to use rare sagacity in the service of circumspection, when it formulates judgements which, I can assure you, would otherwise be so bold as to coast the shore of braggadocio.
To close this incident, which has been deprived of its vein-stone by an act of frivolity as irremediably deplorable as it is fatally interesting (a fact which everyone will certainly attest to, once he has sounded out his most recent memories), it is good, if one's faculties are in perfect equilibrium, or better if the scale of imbecility does not outweigh by too much the scale on which the noble and magnificent attributes of reason are placed, that is to say, to be clearer (for hitherto I have merely been concise, a fact which several will not even admit, because of my longueurs which are only imaginary, since they achieve their goal, which is to track down with the scalpel of analysis the fleeting appearances of truth, even in their last entrenchments), if the intellect still sufficiently predominates over the defects with which habit, education and nature have weighed it down and choked it, it is good; I repeat for the second and last time, for, by dint of repetition, one would end up in most cases by understanding each other, to return with my tail between my legs (if it is even true that I have a tail) to the dramatic subject wedged in this strophe.
It is wise to drink a glass of water before I attempt to continue my work.
I prefer to drink two rather than do without.
Thus, when a runaway negro is being pursued through the forest, each member of the party hangs his rifle from the bindweed and they all meet in the shade of a thicket to quench their thirst and stay their hunger.
But the halt only lasts a few seconds, the chase is eagerly taken up again, and the wild cries of the pursuers are soon heard once more.
And just as oxygen is recognized by the property which it unassumingly possesses of lighting up a match which is still flickering in places, so will the accomplishment of my duty be recognized by the haste with which I return to the matter in hand.
When the two females were no longer able to hold the whip, which exhaustion forced them to drop, they wisely called of this gymnastic labour which they had been engaged in for nearly two hours, and withdrew with an expression of joy on their faces which was not without menace for the future.
I went towards the man who was calling out to me for help (for his loss of blood was so great that weakness prevented him from speaking and my opinion, although I was not a doctor, was that a haemorrhage had set in his head and in his loins), and, having freed his hands, I cut his hair with a pair of scissors.
He told me that one evening his mother had called him into her room and ordered him to undress and spend the night in her bed, and that then, without waiting for his answer, motherhood had stripped off its clothes and had made the most indecent movements in front of him.
Then he had left the room.
Moreover by his persistent refusals he had brought upon himself the anger of his wife who had lulled herself into the hope of a reward if she could get her husband to use his body to satisfy the old woman's passions.
They had plotted and resolved to hang him from a gibbet in some unfrequented region, and there to let him perish by degrees, wretched and exposed to all kinds of dangers.
It was only after numerous and serious reflections that they had at last hit upon this clever torture which had only been brought to an end by my unhoped-for intervention.
Each expression was accompanied by signs of the most heartfelt gratitude and this was not the least merit of his confidences.
I carried him to the nearest cottage; for he had just fainted, and I did not leave the ploughmen until I had given them my purse that they might attend to the wounded man and until I had made them promise to be as consistently compassionate to the poor wretch as if he were their own son.
And I in turn told them what had happened and went towards the gate to set off again along the path; but after I had gone a hundred yards I came back to the hut again and, addressing its simple owners, I shouted: 'No...no...do not think that that surprises me!'
This time, I went away for good; but I could not get a proper foothold: another man might not have noticed this!
The wolf no longer passes beneath the gibbet erected one day by the hands of a wife and a mother, as when his charmed imagination would take the path towards an illusory meal.
When he sees that black hair blowing in the wind on the horizon, he starts and, without losing any time, takes flight with incomparable speed.
Should one see in this psychological phenomenon an intelligence superior to the common instinct of mammals?
Without certifying or even anticipating anything, it seems to me that the animal realized what crime was.
How could it fail to understand, when human beings have rejected the rule of reason to such an unspeakable extent leaving only savage vengeance in the place of this dethroned queen!
4  I am filthy.
I am riddled with lice.
Hogs, when they look at me, vomit.
My skin is encrusted with the scabs and scales of leprosy, and covered with yellowish pus.
I know neither the water of rivers nor the dew of clouds.
An enormous, mushroom with umbelliferous stalks is growing on my nape, as on a dunghill.
Sitting on a shapeless piece of furniture, I have not moved my limbs now for four centuries.
My feet have taken root in the ground; up to my belly, they form a sort of tenacious vegetation, full of filthy parasites; this vegetation no longer has anything in common with other plants, nor is it flesh.
And yet my heart beats.
How could it beat, if the rottenness and miasmata of my corpse (I dare not say body), did not nourish it abundantly?
A family of toads has taken up residence in my left armpit and, when one of them moves, it tickles.
Mind one of them does not escape and come and scratch the inside of your ear with its mouth; for it would then be able to enter your brain.
In my right armpit there is a chameleon which is perpetually chasing them, to avoid starving to death: everyone must live.
But when one party has completely foiled the cunning tricks of the other, they like nothing better than to leave one another in peace and suck the delicate fat which covers my sides: I am used to it.
An evil snake has eaten my verge and taken its place; the filthy creature has made me a eunuch.
Oh if only I could have defended myself with my paralysed hands; but I rather think they have changed into logs.
However that may be, it is important to state that my red blood no longer flows there.
Two little hedgehogs, which have stopped growing, threw the inside of my testicles to a dog, who did not turn up his nose at it: and they lodged inside the carefully washed epidermis.
My anus has been penetrated by a crab; encouraged by my sluggishness, he guards the entrance with his pincers, and causes me a lot of pain!
Two medusae crossed the seas, immediately enticed by a hope which was not disappointed.
They looked attentively at the two fleshy parts which form the human backside, and, clinging on to their convex curve, they so crushed them by constant pressure that the two lumps of flesh have disappeared, while two monsters from the realm of viscosity remain, equal in color, shape, and ferocity.
Do not speak of my spinal column, as it is a sword...Yes, yes...I was not paying attention...your request is a fair one.
You wished to know, did you not, how it came to be implanted vertically in my back.
I cannot remember very clearly; however, if I decide to take for a memory what was perhaps only a dream, I can tell you that man, when he found out that I had vowed to live disease-ridden and motionless until I had conquered the Creator, crept up behind me on tiptoe, but not so quietly that I did not hear him.
For a short moment, I felt nothing.
This sword was buried up to the hilt between the shoulder-blades of the festive bull, and his bones shuddered like an earthquake.
Athletes, mechanical experts, philosophers and doctors have tried, in turn, all kinds of methods.
They did not know that the evil man does cannot be undone!
I forgave them for the depth of their native ignorance, and acknowledged them with a slow movement of my eyelids.
Traveller, when you pass near by me, do not address the least word of consolation to me, I implore you.
You will weaken my courage.
Leave me to kindle my tenacity at the flame of voluntary martyrdom.
Go away...let me not inspire in you any act of piety.
Hatred is stranger than you think; its action is inexplicable, like the broken appearance of a stick in water.
Such as you see me, I can still make sorties as far as the walls of heaven at the head of a legion of murderers, and then come back and, resuming this posture, meditate again on noble projects of vengeance.
Adieu, I shall delay you no longer; and, so that you may learn a lesson and keep out of harm's way, reflect on the fatal destiny which led me to revolt, when I was perhaps born good!
You will tell your son what you have seen; and, taking him by the hand, you will make him admire the beauty of the stars and the wonders of the universe, the robin's nest and the temples of the Lord.
And you will be surprised to see how amenable he is to your paternal advice, and you will reward him with a smile.
But as soon as he knows he is unobserved, take a look at him and you will see him spitting his slime on virtue; he has deceived you, he who is descended from the human race, but he will deceive you no longer; thenceforward you will know what is to become of him.
Oh unfortunate father, prepare, to accompany the steps of your age, the ineffaceable guillotine which will cut off the head of a precocious criminal, and the sorrow which will show you the way which leads to the grave.
5  What is the shadow which casts the projection of its horned silhouette with incomparable power on to the wall of my room?
When I put this dumb raving question to myself, the sobriety of my style is striving less for majesty of form than to give a picture of reality.
Whoever you are, defend yourself; for I am going to hurl at you the sling of a terrible accusation: those eyes are not yours...Where did you get them from?
One day, I saw a blonde woman pass by me; she had eyes like yours: you plucked them out.
I see you want people to believe that you are beautiful; but no one is fooled; and I even less than the others.
I am telling you this so that you do not take me for a fool.
