You have recognized the imaginary hero for who a long time has been shattering my intellect by the pressure of his individuality.
Now Maldoror approaches Mervyn, to fix in his memory the features of the youth; now, backing away, he recoils like an Australian boomerang in the second phase of flight, or rather like a booby-trap.
Undecided as to what he should do.
But his consciousness feels not the slightest trace of the most embryonic emotion, as you would mistakenly suppose.
For a moment I saw him moving off in the opposite direction; was he overwhelmed with remorse?
But he turned back with renewed eagerness.
Mervyn does not know why his temporal veins are beating so violently and he hurries on, obsessed with a dread of which he, and you, vainly seek the cause.
He must be given credit for the determination he shows in trying to solve the riddle.
But why does he not turn round?
Then he would understand everything.
Does one ever think of the simplest means of putting an end to an alarming state of mind?
When a loiterer goes through the outskirts of town with a salad-bowl full of wine in his gullet and a tattered shirt, if in some shady corner he should see a sinewy cat, contemporary of the bloody revolutions witnessed by our fathers, melancholically contemplating the moonbeams which fall on the sleeping plain, he slinks forward in a curved line and gives a sign to a mangy dog, which leaps.
The noble animal of the feline race bravely awaits in its adversary and fights dearly for its life.
Tomorrow a rag-and-bone man will buy its electrifiable skin.
Why did it not flee?
It would have been so easy.
But in the case which concerns us at the moment, Mervyn compounds the danger of his own ignorance.
He has, as it were, a few exceedingly rare glimmerings, it is true, the vagueness of which I shall not now stop to demonstrate; yet it is impossible for him to guess the reality.
He is no prophet, I do not deny it, and he makes no claims to be one.
Arriving on the main arterial road, he turns right and crosses the Boulevard Poissniere and Boulevard Bonne-Nouvelle.
At this point along his way he goes into the Rue du Faubourg Saint-Denis, leaving behind him the platform of Strasbourg railway station, and stops before a raised portal, before reaching the perpendicular superposition of the Rue Lafayette.
Since you advise me to end the first strophe at this point, I am quite willing, this once to accede to your wish.
Do you know that when I think of the iron ring hidden under a stone by a maniac's hand, an uncontrollable shudder runs through my hair?
4  He pulls the copper knob, and the gate to the modern town house turns on its hinges.
He strides across the courtyard, strewn with fine sand, and mounts the eight steps leading up to the front door.
The two statues on each side, like guardians of the aristocratic villa, do not bar his way.
He who has denied everything, father, mother, Providence, love, and the ideal, in order to think only of himself, has taken good care to follow the steps which went before him.
He saw him enter a spacious ground-floor salon, with cornelian wainscoting.
The son of the family flings himself on the sofa, and emotion chokes his speech.
His mother, in a long flowing dress, smothers him with her loving attention, taking him in her arms.
His brothers, younger than he, stand around the sofa, their hearts heavy; they do not know life well enough to be able to form a precise notion of the scene before them.
At last the father raises his cane and looks with great authority at those present.
His hands on the arm of the chair, he slowly gets up and, moving away from his accustomed seat, advances anxiously, though weakened by years, towards the motionless body of his first born.
He speaks in a foreign language and they all listen to him in devout and respectful silence: 'Who did this to you, my boy?
The foggy Thames will shift a notable amount of mud yet before my strength is completely exhausted.
Protective laws do not seem to exist in this inhospitable land.
If I knew who was responsible, he would feel the force of my hand.
Though I have retired and am now far from the scene of maritime combat's, my commodore's sword on the wall is not yet rusty.
Besides, it is easy to sharpen the blade.
Mervyn, be calm.
I shall give orders for the servants to start tracking down him who, henceforward, I intend to seek and kill with my own hands.
Wife, begone from here, go and weep in a corner; your eyes move me, and you would do better to close up the ducts of your lachrymal glands.
My son, I implore you, come to your senses, recognize your family.
This is your father speaking to you...' His mother stands apart and in obedience to her master's orders has taken up a book and is trying to remain calm in face of the danger facing the son to whom her womb gave birth.
'Children, go and play in the park and take care, as you admire the swans swimming, not to fall into the water...' The brothers, their arms dangling by their sides, remain silent; they all, with feathers of the Carolina fern-owl in their hats, velvet breeches to the knees and red silk stockings, take one another by the hand and leave the room, taking care to touch the parquet floor only with the tips of their toes.
I am sure they will not have much fun, but will walk solemnly between the plane-trees.
They are precociously intelligent.
So much the better for them.
'All my loving care is in vain, I lull you in my arms and you are impervious to my supplications.
Will you lift up your head?
I will kiss your knees, if necessary.
But no...his head falls back again, inert.'
'My gentle master, if you will permit your slave, I shall go and look in my room for a phial of turpentine spirit which I habitually use when migraine invades my temples after I have returned from the theatre or when reading a stirring chronicle of British chivalric history throws my dream-laden mind into bogs of drowsiness.'
'Wife, I did not invite you to speak, and you had no right to do so.
Since our lawful union, no cloud has come between us.
I am content with you, I have never had a complaint to make against you; nor have you against me.
Go and look in your room for the phial of turpentine spirit.
I know there is one in the drawers of your dressing-table, there is no need to tell me.
Hurry and mount the steps of the spiral staircase and then return to me with a look of gladness on your face.'
But scarcely has this sensitive London woman reached the first step (she does not run as quickly as a member of the lower classes) than she sees one of her ladies-in-waiting coming down the stairs, her cheeks red with sweat, bringing the phial which perhaps contains the liquid of life within its crystal walls.
The lady curtsies gracefully as she hands her the phial, and his mother moves towards the fringes of the sofa, where lay the sole object of her tenderness.
The commodore, with a proud but kindly gesture, accepts the phial from his wife's hands.
An Indian foulard is dipped in it, and Mervyn's head is swathed in orbicular windings of silk.
He breathes the salts; he moves an arm.
His circulation improves, and the joyous cries of a Philippine cockatoo, perching in the embrasure of a window, are heard.
'Who goes there?...Do not stop me...Where am I?
Is this a coffin bearing up my heavy limbs?
The wood seems soft.
Is the locket with my mother's portrait in it still around my neck?
Back, evil-doer with your hair awry.
He could not catch me and was left with a piece of my doublet in his hands.
Let the bulldogs off their chains, for this night a recognizable thief may break into our home while we are plunged in sleep.
My father and mother, I recognize you, and thank you for your pains.
Call my little brothers.
I bought sugared almonds for them, and I wish to kiss them.'
With these words, he falls into a deep lethargic state.
The doctor, who had been hastily sent for, rubs his hands and exclaims: 'The crisis is over.
Everything is all right.
Tomorrow your son will wake up fit and well.
Go now all of you to your respective beds, that I may remain beside the patient till the coming of dawn and the nightingale's song.'
Maldoror, hidden behind the door, heard every word.
Now he knows the character of those who live in this town-house, and will act accordingly.
He knows where Mervyn lives, and wishes to know no more.
He has noted in a pocket0book the name of the street and the number of the building.
That is the main thing.
He is sure to remember them now.
He advances like a hyena, unseen, and slinks along the walls of the courtyard.
He climbs the iron railing with agility, and for a moment his feet are caught in the iron spikes; in a leap, he is on the road.
He creeps stealthily away.
'He took me for an evil-doer!'
he exclaims.
'He is an imbecile.
I should like to find a man to whom the accusation the sick boy has made against me does not apply.
I did not tear off a piece of his doublet as he said.
A simple hypnagogic illusion, brought on by fear.
It was not my intention to seize him; for I have far different designs on this shy youth.'
Make your way towards the lake where the swans are.
And I will tell you later why there is a completely black one among them, with an anvil on his body on top of which is the putrefying corpse of a great crab, and I will tell you also why he rightly inspires mistrust in his aquatic fellows.
5  Mervyn is in his room.
He has received a letter.
Who could this be writing to him?
His perplexity was such that he forgot to thank the postman.
The envelope has a black border, and the words are written in a hurried hand.
Will he go and take the letter to his father?
And what if the signatory should expressly forbid it?
Full of anxiety, he opens the window to breathe in the fragrance of the atmosphere; the sun's rays reflect their prismatic irradiations on to the Venetian mirrors and the damask curtains.
He throws the missive to one side amongst the gold-edged books and the albums with their mother-of-pearl bindings, all strewn over the repousse leather which covers the surface of his desk.
He lifts the lid of the piano and runs his slender fingers along the ivory keys.
The brass chords scarcely make a sound.
This indirect warning induces him to pick up the vellum paper again; but it shrank away, as if offended by the addressee's hesitancy.
Caught in this snare, Mervyn's curiosity increases, and he opens the piece of processed paper.
Until that moment the only handwriting he had seen was his own.
'Young man, I am interested in you; I wish to make you happy.
I will take you as my companion and we will go on long peregrinations in the isles of Oceania.
Mervyn, you know I love you, and I do not need to prove it.
I am sure you will grant me your friendship.
When you know me better, you will not regret the trust you have placed in me.
I will protect you from the dangers which your inexperience exposes you.
I will be a brother to you, and you shall not lack good advice.
For a more detailed explanation of my plans, be at the Carrousel bridge the day after tomorrow at five o'clock in the morning.
If I have not arrived, wait for me; but I hope to be there at the right time.
Make sure you do so too.
An Englishman will not lightly pass by and opportunity to see clearly into his own affairs.
You man, I remain, until we meet, your humble servant.
Do not show this letter to anyone.'
'Three stars instead of a signature,' exclaims Mervyn; 'and a bloodstain at the bottom of the page!'
His tears fall profusely on the strange pages which his eyes have so eagerly devoured and which open to his mind an unlimited field of new and vaguely-apprehended horizons.
It seems to him (but only since he has finished reading the letter), that his father is rather strict and his mother is too superior.
He has reasons which have not come to my knowledge, and which I consequently cannot communicate to you, for hinting that he cannot remain on good terms with his brothers, either.
He hides this letter in his breast.
His teachers noticed that on that day he did not seem to be himself.
His eyes were unusually dark and the veil of excessive reflection had descended on his peri-orbital region.
Each teacher blushed for fear of not being able to reach the intellectual level of his pupil, and yet he, for the first time, neglected his exercises and did no work at all.
In the evening the family came together in the dining-room, adorned with ancient portraits.
Mervyn admires the dishes laden with succulent meats and odoriferous fruits but he does not eat; the polychromatic streaming of Rhine wine and the frothy ruby of champagne are both enshrined in tall, narrow Bohemian stone goblets, and, even at the sight of this, Mervyn remains indifferent.
He leans his elbow on the table and remains absorbed in his thoughts like a sleep-walker.
The commodore, his face brown and weather-beaten from sea-surf, whispers in his wife's ear: 'Our eldest has changed since the day of the crisis; even before then he was far too prone to absurd ideas; today he is dreaming even more than usual.
I was not at all like that when I was his age.
Pretend you do not notice anything.
An effective remedy, material or moral, is called for here.
Mervyn, fond as I know you are of travel books and natural history, I am going to read you a story which will not displease you.
I want you all to listen attentively; it will be to everyone's disadvantage, most of all to mine.
And the rest of you, my children, learn by paying attention to my words, how to perfect the construction of your style and to understand the author's most subtle intentions.'
As if this brood of adorable brats could have understood what rhetoric is!
He speaks and, at a sign from his father, one of the brothers goes to the paternal library and returns with a volume under his arms.
During this time the table has been cleared, the silver removed, and then the father takes up the book.
At the electrifying sound of the word 'travel', Mervyn looked up and endeavoured to put an end to his untimely meditations.
The book is opened in the middle, and the metallic voice of the commodore proves that he has remained capable, as in the days of his glorious youth, of controlling the fury of men and tempests.
Well before the end of this reading, Mervyn has leant back on his elbows again, unable to follow the reasoned development of sentences which have been passed under the screw-plate and been subjected to the saponification of obligatory metaphors.
The father exclaims: 'This does not interest him; let us read something else.
Read, wife.
Perhaps you will be more fortunate than I in chasing away the chagrin which hangs over our son's days.'
The mother no longer has any hope; yet she has picked up another book and the pleasant sound of her soprano voice echoes melodiously in the ears of her offspring.
But after a few words she is overwhelmed with a disheartening sense of failure and she too gives up the rendition of the literary work.
Her first-born exclaims: 'I am going to bed.'
He retires, his eyes lowered, staring coldly down, without another word.
The dog begins to let out a mournful bark, for he does not find this behaviour natural, and the wind from outside rushed fitfully through the longitudinal crack in the window, making the flame under the two rose- crystal cupolas of the lamp flicker.
His mother puts her hands to her forehead, and his father looks up to the sky.
The children cast frightened glances at the old mariner.
Mervyn double- locks the door of his room and his hand moves quickly over the paper: 'I received your letter at midday, and hope you will forgive me for the delay in my reply.
I do not have the honour of knowing you personally and I did not know whether I ought to write to you.
But as impoliteness has no place in our home, I resolved to take up my pen and thank you warmly for the interest you are taking in one who is a complete stranger to you.
God forbid that I should fail to show gratitude for the sympathy with which you overwhelm me.
I know my imperfections but I am nonetheless proud.
But if it is fitting to accept the friendship of an older person, it is fitting also that he should understand that our characters are not the same.
In fact, you seem to be older than I, since you call me young man, and yet I have my doubts about your real age.
For how can I reconcile the coldness of your syllogisms with the passion which emanates from them?
I shall certainly not abandon the country of my birth to accompany you to foreign lands.
That would only be possible on the condition that I asked the authors of my days for the permission which I eagerly await.
But as you have enjoined me to keep the secret (in the cubic sense of the word) of this spiritually mysterious affair, I shall eagerly obey you in your incontestable wisdom.
It would seem that you are reluctant that this affair should see the light of day.
Since you appear to wish that I should have confidence in your person (a wish that, I am delighted to say, is not misplaced), be so good, I beg you, as to show an analogous trust in me, and not to affect to believe that I shall be so far from your way of thinking as not to be scrupulously punctual at our rendezvous the day after tomorrow at the appointed hour.
I shall climb the wall which surrounds the park, for the iron gate will be closed, and no one will see me leaving.
To speak frankly, there is nothing I would not do for you, who revealed your inexplicable attachment so suddenly to my dazzled eyes, amazed above all by such a proof of goodness, which I most assuredly would never have expected.
Because I did not know you.
Now I do know you.
Do not forget the promise you have made me to be on the Carrousel bridge.
Assuming I walk along it, I am more certain than I have ever been of anything that I shall meet you there and touch your hand, provided that this innocent demonstration, from a youth who only yesterday knelt at the altar of modesty, does not offend you by its respectful familiarity.
Now is not familiarity permissible in the case of a powerful and ardent intimacy, when perdition is absolute and assured?
And what harm would there be, after all, in my bidding you adieu as I go by, when, the day after tomorrow, whether it is raining or not, the clock strikes five?
You yourself, gentleman, will appreciate the discretion with which I have conceived this letter; for I shall certainly not permit myself to say more on a loose sheet of paper which is liable to go astray.
Your address at the bottom of the page is almost illegible.
It took me almost a quarter of an hour to decipher it.
I think you acted wisely in writing the words out in such a microscopic hand.
I shall follow your example and refrain from signing this: we live in a time which is too eccentric for us to be in the least surprised at what could happen.
I should like to know how you found out the place where, in glacial immobility, I live surrounded by long rows of deserted rooms, the vile charnel houses of my hours of ennui.
How can I put it?
Whenever I think of you, my breast heaves, resounding like the collapse of a decaying empire; for the shadow of your love forms a smile which perhaps does not exist: it is so vague, and moves its scales so tortuously.
I surrender to you my vehement feelings, new slabs of marble, virgin to mortal touch.
Let us be patient till the first light of morning dusk, and, in expectation of the moment which will fling me into the hideous embrace of your pestiferous arms, I bow down humbly before your knees, which I press.'
Having written this tell-tale letter, Mervyn went out to post it, then returned and went to bed.
Do not expect to find his guardian angle at his bedside.
True, the fish's tail will only fly for three days; but, alas, the beam will be burnt just the same; and a conical-cylindrical bullet will pierce the skin of the rhinoceros, despite the snow-daughter and the beggar!
For the crowned madman will have spoken the truth about the loyalty of the fourteen daggers.
6  I observed that I had only one eye in the middle of my forehead!
Oh silver mirrors, set in the panels of vestibules, how many services you have done me by your reflecting power!
Since the day when, for an hour, and angora cat gnawed at my parietal protuberance like a trepan puncturing my brain, having jumped suddenly on my back because I had boiled its young in a copper vat full of alcohol, since then I have not ceased to shoot the arrows of self-torment at myself.
Today, beneath the weight of wounds which have been inflicted on my body in different circumstances, either by the fatality of my birth or by my own fault; overwhelmed by the consequences of my moral decline (some of which have already befallen me; who will predict those yet to come?
); the unmoved observer of the acquired or natural monstrosities which adorn the aponeuroses and the intellect of him who speaks, I cast a long look of satisfaction on the duality of which I am composed...and I find myself beautiful!
Beautiful as the vice of congenital deformation of the male sexual organs, consisting in the relative shortness of the urethral canal and the division, or absence, of its lower wall, with the result that this canal opens at a varying distance from the gland and below the penis; or again as the fleshy wattle, conic in shape and furrowed by quite long transverse wrinkles, which rises from the base of the turkey cock's upper beak; or rather as the truth which follows: 'The system of scales, modes and their harmonic succession is not dependent upon natural invariable laws but is, on the contrary, the consequence of aesthetic principles which have varied with the progressive development of mankind and which will continue to vary'; and, above all, as a corvet armed with turrets!
Yes, I maintain the exactitude of my assertion.
I can boast that I have no presumptuous illusions, and I would gain no advantage from lying; therefore you should not in the least hesitate to believe what I say.
For why should I inspire horror in myself, when I have the laudatory testimony of my conscience.
I envy the Creator nothing; but let him allow me to go down the river of my destiny in an increasing series of glorious crimes.
Otherwise raising my brow to the height of his and glaring angrily at his face which obscures my view, I shall make him understand that he is not alone the master of the universe; that several phenomena directly deriving from a deeper knowledge of the nature of things speak in favour of the contrary view and formally contradict the viability of the unity of power.
For we are both contemplating one another's eyelashes, you see...and you know that the clarion of victory has sounded more than once on my lipless mouth.
Adieu, illustrious warrior; your courage in misfortune wins you the respect of your bitterest enemy; but Maldoror will be with you soon again in contention for the prey called Mervyn.
Thus the prophecy of the cock, when it caught a glimpse of the future in the candelabra, will be fulfilled.
Please heaven that the giant crab will rejoin the caravan of pilgrims in time, and tell them in a few words the Clignancourt ragman's tale!
7  On a bench of the Palais Royal, on the left side and not far from the lake, an individual, emerging from the Rue de Rivoli, has come to sit.
His hair is tousled and his garments reveal the corrosive effect of prolonged poverty.
He has made a hole in the earth with a piece of pointed wood and has filled the palm of his hand with earth.
He brought this sustenance to his mouth and then flung it quickly away.
He stood up again and, placing his head against the bench, tried to put his feet up in the air.
But as this rope-walking position did not conform to the laws of gravity, he fell back heavily on to the bench again, his arms flailing, his cap covering half his face, and his feet touching the gravel very unsteadily, so that he was more and more precariously poised.
He remains in this position for a long time.
Towards the middle entrance at the north, beside the rotunda which houses the little coffee-room, the hand of our hero is pressed against the railing.
He surveys the surface of the rectangle, with such thoroughness that nothing escapes him.
His investigation complete, he looks around near and sees, in the middle of the garden, a man staggering as he practices gymnastics on a bench on which he is endeavouring to steady himself by performing miracles of strength and skill.
But what good are the best intentions, in service of a just cause, against the derangements of mental alienation?
He approached the madman and kindly helped him to resume a more normal and dignified position, held out his hand to him, and sat down beside him.
He observes that his madness is only intermittent; his fit has passed; his interlocutor replies logically to all his questions.
Is it necessary to relate the meaning of his words?
Why should I, at random, reopen, at a given page, with blasphemous eagerness, the folio of human miseries?
There is nothing more fruitfully instructive.
Even if I had no true event to recount to you, I would invent imaginary tales and decant them into your brain.
But the lunatic did not go mad for his own amusement.
And the sincerity of his account is marvelously allied to the reader's credulity.
'My father was a carpenter in the Rue de la Verrerie...on his head be the death of the three Daisies and may the beak of the canary eternally gnaw the axis of his ocular bulb!
He had contracted the habit of drunkenness; at those times, after he had been through all the bars, his rage became almost immeasurable, and he would hit out indiscriminately at everything in sight.
But soon, in face of his friends' reproaches, he reformed, and became of a taciturn disposition.
Nobody could go near him, not even our mother.
A secret resentment seethed within him at this notion of a duty, which prevented him from behaving in his own way.
I had bought a canary for my three sisters; for my three sisters I had bought a canary.
They had put it in a cage above the door, and the passers-by would stop each time to listen to the bird's songs, admire its fleeting grace, and study its clever variations.
More than once my father had given orders for us to get rid of the cage and its contents, for he imagined that the canary was mocking him as it offered him its ethereal cavatinas sung with a vocalist's talent.
He went and took the cage down from the nail on the wall and slipped of the chair, blinded by rage.
A slight graze on his knee was the reward for this attempt.
Having spent several seconds pressing a chip of wood on the swollen part, he rolled down his trousers, and, much more cautious this time, took the cage under his arm and went towards the other end of the workshop.
There, despite the cries and entreaties of his family (we were very attached to that bird who was, to us, the genius of the house), he crushed the wickerwork cage with his metal heels, while a jointing-plane which he whirled about his head kept those who were present at bay.
Chance would have it that the canary did not die straightaway; the flurry of feathers was still alive, despite its bloody mutilation.
The carpenter went out, slamming the door behind him.
My mother and I tried to prolong the bird's life, which was about to ebb away; it was drawing to its close, and the movement of its wings presented us only the spectacle, the mirror, as it were, of the supreme convulsion, of death-throes.
During this time, the three Daisies, perceiving that all hope would soon be gone, by common accord took one another by the hand, and the living chain went and crouched in a corner, pushing a barrel of fat some feet away beside our bitch's kennel.
My mother kept on at her task, and was holding the canary in her fingers, trying to revive it with her warm breath.
But I was running distraught through all the rooms, knocking against the furniture and the tools.
From time to time one of my sisters would show her head at the bottom of the stairs to inquire after the fate of the unhappy bird, and she would then sadly withdraw.
The bitch had come out of her kennel, and, as if she understood the enormity of our loss, was licking the dress of the three Daisies in a sterile attempt to comfort them.
The canary now had only a few moments to live.
One of my sisters in turn (it was the youngest) appeared in the penumbra formed by the rarefaction of light.
She saw my mother turn pale, and the bird, having raised its head as the lightning flashed in a final convulsive gesture of its nervous system, fell back again between her fingers, for ever inert.
She told her sisters the news.
They did not make the slightest murmur of complaint, the slightest whisper.
Silence reigned in the workshop.
All that could be heard was the occasional sharp creak of the pieces of the cage, which, by virtue of the wood's elasticity, partly sprang back into their original position.
The three Daisies did not shed a single tear, their faces lost none of their ruddy freshness.
They just stood still.
They crawled into the inside of the kennel and stretched out beside each other on the straw; while the bitch, a passive spectator of this procedure, looked at them in amazement.
Several times my mother called them; they did not make sound.
Tired by the emotions they had just been through, they would probably be asleep!
She searched in every corner of the house, but could not see them anywhere.
She followed the bitch, who was pulling her by the dress, towards the kennel.
This woman knelt down and put her head to the kennel door.
The spectacle which presented itself to her, allowing for the unhealthy exaggerations of maternal fear, must have been very harrowing, by my reckoning.
I lit a candle and held it out to her; in this way, not a single detail escaped her.
She came out of the premature grave, her head covered in straw, and said to me: "The three Daisies are dead."
As we could not take them out there, for you must bear well in mind that they were tightly entwined together, I went to the workshop to look for a hammer with which to smash the canine abode.
I immediately set about the work of demolition, and the passers-by could well believe if they had any imagination, that we were hard at work in the house.
My mother, impatient at the delays which were, however, necessary, was breaking her nails against the wood.
At last the operation of negative release came to an end.
The kennel, now split, fell apart on all sides, and we took the daughters of the carpenter, one after the other, from the ruins, having had great difficulty in prising them apart.
My mother left the country.
I never saw my father again.
As for me, they say that i am mad and live by begging.
What I do know is that the canary no longer sings.'
The listener inwardly approves of this new example which bears out his disgusting theories.
As if, because of one man whose crime was committed under the influence of wine, one had the right to accuse the whole of mankind!
Such at least is the paradoxical reflection which he tries to take into account; but he cannot get out of his mind the important lessons to be learnt from this grave experience.
He consoles the madman with affected words of commiseration and wipes away his tears with his own handkerchief.
He takes him to a restaurant and they eat at the same table.
Then they go off to a fashionable tailor where the protégé is bought clothes fit for a prince.
They knock at the conciergerie of a big house in the Rue de Saint Honore, and the madman is installed in a sumptuous third-floor apartment.
The bandit forces him to accept his purse and, taking the chamber-pot from under the bed, puts it on Aghone's head.
'I crown you king of the intellect,' he exclaimed with premeditated solemnity.
'At your least call I shall come running; take as much as you wish from my coffers; I am yours, body and soul.
At night, you will put the alabaster crown back into its usual place, and you have my permission to use it; but by day, once dawn has lit up the cities, put it back on your head as the symbol of your power.
The three Daisies will live again in me, not to mention that I will be a mother to you.'
Then the madman took a few steps back, as if he were the plaything of a malicious nightmare; lines of joy crossed his grief-ridden face; he knelt in self-abasement at his protector's feet.
Gratitude, like poison, had entered the crowned madman's heart.
He wanted to speak, but his tongue was tied.
He leant forward, and fell on the floor.
The man wit the bronze lips retires.
What was his object?
To find a thoroughly dependable friend, naive enough to obey the least of his commandments.
He could not have found a better one, chance had been kind to him.
He whom he found on a bench, has not, since an incident in his youth, known for the difference between good an evil.
Aghone is just the man he needs.
8  The Almighty had sent one of his archangels down to earth to save the youth from certain death.
He will be forced to come down himself!
But we have not yet reached that point in our story and I find myself obliged to shut up, because I cannot say everything at once: every stage-trick will appear in its due place, as soon as the thread of this work of fiction considers the moment right.
To avoid recognition, the archangel had taken the shape of a great crab, as big as a vicuna.
He was standing on the jagged point of a reef out in the middle of the sea, and was awaiting the moment when the tide would recede, so that he could make his descent to the shore.
The man with lips of jasper, hidden where the beach curved out of sight, was watching the animal, holding a stick in his hands.
Who would have wished to read the thoughts of those two beings?
The first was well aware that he had a difficult mission to accomplish: 'And how shall I succeed,' he exclaimed, with the swelling waves beating against his temporary refuge, 'where the courage and strength of my master have more than once failed him?
I am only a being of finite substance, whereas no one knows where he is from, or what is his final purpose.
The celestial armies tremble at his name; and in the regions from which I have just come, there are those who say that Satan himself, Satan, the incarnation of evil, is not more dreadful than he.'
The other made the following reflections; they found an echo even in the azure cupola which they defiled: 'He appears to be completely inexperience; I shall swiftly settle his account.
No doubt he comes from on high, sent by him who is so fearful of coming himself.
We shall see, in the even, if he is as imperious as he seems; he is not an inhabitant of the terrestrial apricot; he betrays his seraphic origin by his wandering irresolute eyes.'
The great crab, who for some time had been surveying a limited stretch of the coast, perceived our hero (who then drew himself up to his full Herculean height), and apostrophized him in the following terms: 'Do not attempt to struggle, give yourself up.
I have been set by one who is superior to us both, to fetter you and make it impossible for the limbs which are the accomplices of your thoughts to move.
Henceforward you will be forbidden to hold knives and daggers between your fingers, believe me; as much in your interest as in others.
Dead or alive, I shall take you; my orders are to bring you back alive.
Do not force me to have recourse to the power which has been vested in me.
I shall behave with great tact; do not, on your part, attempt to resist.
Thus I shall recognize, with alacrity and delight, that you have taken a first step towards repentance.'
When our hero heard this harangue, bearing the stamp of such a profoundly comic wit, he had difficulty in keeping a serious expression on his rough and sunburnt features.
But at last no one will be surprised if I add that he ended by bursting out laughing.
It was too much fun for him!
He did not mean any harm by it!
He certainly did not wish to bring upon himself the great crab's reproaches!
What efforts he made to contain his mirth!
How often he pressed his lips against one another so as not to appear to offend his stunned interlocutor!
Unfortunately, his character partook of human nature, and he laughed as sheep do!
At last he stopped!
And just in time!
He had almost choked to death!
The wind bore this answer to the archangel on the reef.
'When your master stops sending me snails and crayfish to settle his affairs, and deigns to parley with me personally, a means will, I am sure, be found for us to reach agreement, since I am inferior to him who sent you, as you have so rightly said.
Until then, any idea of a reconciliation appears to me premature and likely to produce an illusory result.
I am far from underestimating the good sense of every syllable you speak; and as we are uselessly wearing out our voices by shouting to one another at three kilometres' distance, it seems to me you would be wise to descend from your impregnable fortress and swim to dry land where we shall be able to discuss in greater comfort the conditions of a surrender which, however justifiable it may be, is still a disagreeable prospect for me.'
The archangel, who had not been expecting such good will, withdrawing his indented head from the crevasse, answered: 'Oh Maldoror, has the day at last come when your abominable instincts will see the extinction of the torch of unjustifiable pride which is leading you to your damnation.
I shall be the first to recount this laudable change of heart to the phalanges of cherubim, delighted to welcome back one of their own.
You yourself know and have not forgotten, that there was once a time when you had the first place among us.
Your name was on everyone's lips; at present you are the subject of our solitary conversations.
Come then...come and make lasting peace with your former master; he will welcome you back like a prodigal son, and will not notice the enormous amount of guilt you bear, like a mountain fo moose antlers piled up by Indians in your heart.'
He speaks, and his body emerges completely from the depths of the dark opening.
He appears, radiant, on the surface of the reef; thus a priest appears when he is certain of retrieving a lost sheep.
He is about to leap into the water, to swim towards the man who has just been forgiven.
But the man with lips of sapphire had calculated his perfidious move.
His stick has been violently hurled through the air; after skipping over many waves, it strikes the head of the benificent angel.
The crab, mortally wounded, falls into the water.
The tide washes the floating wreck up on to the shore.
He was waiting for the tide so that it would be easier for him to swim to shore.
Well, the tide came.
It lulled him with its songs and set him down gently on the shore: is not the crab happy?
What more does he want?
And Maldoror, stooping down over the sand on the beach, takes two friends in his arms, inseparably united by the vagaries of the waves' movements; the corpse of the giant crab, and the murderous stick!
'I have not yet lost my skill,' he cries, 'all I need is practice; my arm has lost none of its strength, and my eyes are as sharp as ever.'
He looks at the inanimate animal.
He fears he will be brought to account for the blood he has shed.
Where will he hide the archangel?
And at the same time he wonders whether death was instantaneous.
He put an anvil and a corpse on his back; he makes his way towards a vast lake, all the banks of which are covered and, so to speak, immured by an inextricable tangle of large rushes.
He wanted at first to take a hammer, but it is too light an instrument, whereas with a heavier object, if the corpse gives any sign of life, he will put it on the ground and smash it to powder with blows of the anvil.
No, it certainly is not strength his arm lacks; that is the least of his problems.
Arriving in sight of the lake, he sees it peopled with swans.
He says that it is a safe retreat for him; by means of a metamorphosis, without setting down his burden, he mingles with the rest of the company of birds.
Observe the hand of Providence where one was tempted to say it was absent, and draw profit from the miracle of which I am about to speak.
Black as a raven's wing, three times he swam among the group of palmipeds in their dazzling whiteness; three times that distinctive colour which made him look like a lump of coal failed to disappear.
It is because God in his justice would not allow him to deceive even this flight of swans.
So that he remained openly in the middle of the lake; but they all kept clear of him, and no bird approached his shameful plumage to keep him company.
And so he confined his dives to a remote bay at one end of the lake, alone among birds as he had been among men.
This was his prelude to the incredible event which took place in the Place Vendome!
9  The corsair with golden hair has received Mervyn's answer.
Reading the strange page, he follows the intellectual anxiety of its writer, left as he was to the weak powers of his own suggestion.
He would have done better to consult his parents before answering the stranger's protestations of friendship.
no good will come of his being involved, as the principal actor, in this equivocal intrigue.
But after all, he asked for it.
At the agreed time Mervyn left the door of his house and went straight ahead, following the Boulevard Sebastopol to the Fontain Saint-Michel.
He takes the Quai des Grands-Augustins and crosses the Quai Conti; as he passes along the Quai Malaquais, he sees an individual walking parallel with him, going in the same direction along the Quai du Louvre, carrying a sack under his arm.
The man appears to be scrutinizing him.
The morning mists have disperse.
The two passers-by both come on to the Pont du Carrousel at the same time, one from each side!
Though they had never met before they recognized one another!
Truly it was touching to see the souls of these two beings, so different in age, coming together in the nobility of their feelings.
Such at least would have been the opinion of anyone who had stopped at this spectacle which many, even if mathematically minded, would have found moving.
Mervyn, his face covered in tears was reflecting that he would find, so to speak at the entrance to his life, a precious support in future adversity.
You may be sure that Maldoror said nothing.
This is what he did: he took the sack from under his arm, unfolded it, unclasped it, and forced the youth's entire body down into the rough cloth envelop.
With his handkerchief he knotted the top end.
As Mervyn was uttering loud and piercing cries, he picked up the sack like a laundry-bag and smashed it several times against the parapet of the bridge.
Then the patient, perceiving that his bones were snapping, became silent.
A unique scene, which no novelist will ever again rediscover!
A butcher was passing, sitting on top of the meat in his cart.
An individual runs up to him, enjoins him to stop, and says to him: 'There is a dog in this sack; it has mange: put it down as soon as possible.'
The butcher is glad to oblige.
The man who hailed him sees, as he walks away, a young girl holding out her hand.
To what heights of audacity and impiety can he go?
He gives her alms.
Tell me if you wish me to take you to the door of a remote slaughterhouse, some hours later.
The butcher has returned, and said to his friends as he threw his load to the ground: 'Let us hurry up and kill this mangy dog.'
There are four of them, and each one picks up the hammer which he normally uses.
And yet they do not set about their work straightaway, because the sack is moving violently.
'What is coming over me?'
one of them shouts, slowly lowering his arm.
'This dog is uttering cries of pain,' said another, 'you would think it knew the fate which awaits it.'
'They always do that,' a third answered, 'even when they are not sick as in this case, it is enough for their master to be away from home for a few days and they start howling in a manner which is truly painful to endure.'
'Stop!...stop!...'
