You think that digging graves is serious work!’ ‘When the savage pelican resolves to give its breast to be devoured by its young, with no other witness than Him who could create such love, although the sacrifice is great, this is an act which can be understood.
When a young man sees a woman he would worship in the arms of a friend, he starts to smoke a cigar; he stays at home, and enters into indissoluble friendship with sorrow; this act can be understood.
When a boarder at school is controlled for years which seem like centuries, from morning to evening and from evening to morning again by a pariah of civilization whose eyes are constantly fixed on him, he feels the tumultuous upsurge of lasting hatred rising like thick smoke to his brain, which seems about to burst.
From the moment when he was thrown into that prison, to the approaching moment when he will leave it, an intense fever turns his face a sickly yellow, knits his brow, makes his eyes sink in their sockets.
At night he broods because he does not want to sleep.
During the day, his thoughts soar beyond the walls of the place of degradation until the moment comes when he escapes, or when, as if plague-ridden, he is thrown out of the eternal cloister.
This act can be understood.
Digging a grave often surpasses the forces of nature.
How, stranger, can you expect the pick to go on digging this earth which first nourishes us then provides us with a comfortable bed, protected from the winter winds which whistle through these cold lands, when he who holds the pick—having all day been touching convulsively with his trembling hands the cheeks of those once living who are now returning to his realm—sees before him in the evening, written in flaming letters on each cross, the statement of that terrifying problem which man has not yet resolved: the mortality or immortality of the soul.
I have not ceased to love God, the creator of the universe; but if after death we are no longer to exist why do I see most nights each grave opening and its inhabitants gently lifting the leaden lids, to go out and breathe the fresh air?’ ‘Stop your work.
Emotion is sapping your strength; you seem weak as a reed; it would be utter madness to go on.
I am strong; I will take your place.
Stand aside; and let me know if I am doing anything wrong.’ ‘How muscular his arms are, and what a pleasure it is to watch him digging the earth with such ease.’ ‘You must not let your mind be tormented by useless doubt: all these graves scattered throughout the cemetery are worthy of measurement by the philosopher’s serene compass.
Dangerous hallucinations may come by day; but above all they come at night.
Do not therefore be surprised as the fantastic visions which your eyes seem to perceive.
During the day when the mind is resting, examine your conscience; it will tell you, certainly, that the God who created man and gave him part of His own intelligence possesses goodness without limits and after our earthly death will take His masterpiece to His breast.
Grave-digger, why do you weep?
Why these tears, like a woman’s?
Remember this: we are on this mastless vessel to suffer.
It is man’s merit that God has judged him capable of conquering his deepest sufferings.
Speak and since, according to your wishes, there would be no more suffering, tell me, if your tongue is like that of other men, in what virtue, that ideal which everyone strives to attain, would then consist?’ ‘Where am I?
Has not my character changed?
I fell a powerful breath of consolation brush against my cool, calm forehead, like the spring breeze which revives old men’s hopes.
Who is this man who in sublime language has said things which no mere passing stranger could have uttered?
What musical beauty there is in the incomparable melody of his voice!
I would rather hear him speak than hear others sing.
Yet the more I observe him the less candid his face appears to be.
The general expression of his features contrasts singularly with these words which only the love of God could have inspired.
His somewhat wrinkled forehead is marked with an indelible stigma.
And this stigma which has prematurely aged him, is it a mark of honour or infamy?
Should those wrinkles be looked on with veneration?
I do not know, I am afraid to know.
Although he says what he does not believe, I think he has reasons for acting as he has done, moved by the few tattered shreds of charity which still remain in him.
He is absorbed in reflections which are unknown to me, and he is redoubling his activity in a kind of labour to which he is unaccustomed.
His skin is drenched in sweat; he does not notice.
He is sadder than the feelings inspired by the sight of a child in its cradle.
How sombre he is!...Where do you come from?
Stranger, allow me to touch you, let my hands, which rarely grasp those of the living, trespass on the nobility of your body.
Whatever happens, I would know what to hold on to.
This hair is the finest I have ever touched in my life.
Who would be so bold as to doubt my judgment of the quality of hair?
‘What do you want with me?
Can you not see I am digging this grave?
The lion does not wish to be disturbed when he is feasting on flesh.
If you don not know that, I will teach you.
Come on, hurry.
Do what you wish.’ ‘What is now shivering at my touch, making me shiver too, is flesh, there is no doubt of it.
It is real...I am not dreaming!
Who are you, you who stoop here as you dig a grave, while I stand here doing nothing, like an idler living on others’ bread?
It is the hour for sleep, or for sacrificing one’s repose to the pursuit of knowledge.
In any event, no one is out of his house, or if he is, he has been careful to close the door, so as not to let in thieves.
Everyone is enclosed in his room as best he can, while the ashes in his old fireplace can still manage to give off enough dying heat to keep the room a little warm.
But you do not do what the others do.
Your clothes indicate that you are from some distant land.’ ‘Although I am not tired, it is pointless to continue digging the grave.
Now undress me; then put me into it.’ ‘The conversation we have just been having, the two of us, is so strange that I do not know how to answer...I think the gentleman is having a little joke.’ ‘Yes, yes, it is true, I was not serious; I do not know what I am saying any more.’ He collapsed, and the grave-digger rushed to support him!
‘What is wrong?’ ‘Yes, yes, it is true.
I was lying.
I was really tired when I put down the pick...it is the first time I have done this kind of work...do not take any notice of what I said.’ ‘My opinion of him is being confirmed more and more.
He is someone who has known dreadful affliction.
I pity him so much that I prefer to remain in the dark.
And then he would not want to answer me, that is sure: to open one’s heart in such an abnormal state is to double one’s suffering.’ ‘Let me leave this cemetery; I will continue on my way.’ ‘Your legs are not strong enough to hold you.
You would get lost on the way.
My duty is to offer you a simple bed.
I have no other.
Trust in me.
Accepting my hospitality does not oblige you to reveal any of your secrets to me.’ ‘Oh venerable louse, you whose body has no wing-case, one day you will bitterly reproach me for not having loved your sublime understanding enough; perhaps you were right, since I feel no gratitude towards this man who is helping me.
Oh lantern of Maldoror, where are you guiding his steps?’ ‘To my home.
Whether you are a criminal who has not taken the precaution of washing his right hand with soap after committing his atrocious crime and whose guilt is revealed by close inspection of his hand; or a brother who has lost his sister; or some dispossessed monarch fleeing his realms, my truly imposing palace is worthy to receive you.
It was not built of diamonds and precious stones, for it is only a poor cottage, crudely put together; but this famous cottage has a historic past, which the present renews and continues incessantly.
If it could speak it would astound even you, who seem to be astonished by nothing.
How often this cottage and I have seen coffins pass by containing bones soon to be more worm-eaten that the door I leant against.
My countless subjects increase each day.
I need no periodical census to ascertain this.
Here it is the same as in life; everyone pays rates in proportion to the opulence of the dwelling he has chosen for himself; and if some miser should refuse to hand over his dues, then I have instructions to do as bailiffs and vultures who would enjoy a good meal.
I have seen many drawn up under the flag of death—the once-handsome man; the man who remained handsome even after death; men, women, beggars, kings’ sons; the illusions of youth, the skeletons of old men; genius; madness; idleness and its opposite; the false and the true-hearted; the mask of the proud, the modesty of the humble; vice crowned with flowers and innocence betrayed.’ ‘No, certainly I will not refuse your offer of a bed worthy of me, till dawn which will come soon.
I thank you for your kindness Gravedigger, it is grand to contemplate the ruins of cities; but it is grander still to contemplate the ruins of human beings!’   13  The brother of the leech was walking in the forest, slowly.
He stops several times, opening his mouth to speak.
But each time his throat contracts, drives back the abortive effort.
At last he cries out: ‘Man, when you come across a dead dog lying on its back against a sluice gate which will not let it through, do not, as others do, go up and pick out the worms crawling from its swollen belly, examine them in wonder, take out a knife and cut up a large number of them, saying as you do so that one day you will be no more than this dog.
What mystery do you seek?
Neither I nor the four fin-legs of the polar bear in the Boreal ocean have been able to solve the problems of life.
Take care, night is approaching, you have been here since morning.
What will your family say, and your little sister, seeing you arrive so late?
Wash your hands, go on your way, to your home, your bed.
Who is that being yonder on the horizon who dares to approach me, without fear, in crooked, agitated jumps; and what majesty, mingled with serene gentleness!
His look, though gentle, is deep.
His enormous eyelids play in the breeze and seem to have their own life.
I do not know him.
When I stare at his monstrous eyes, my body trembles—for the first time since I sucked the dry breasts of what is called a mother.
There is, as it were, a halo of dazzling light around him.
When he spoke, all nature was hushed and felt a great shudder.
Since it pleases you to come to me, as if drawn by a lover, I shall not resist.
How beautiful he is!

It hurts me to say it.
You must be powerful; for you have a more than human face, sad as the universe, beautiful as suicide.
I abhor you with all my being; and I would rather, from the beginning of the centuries, have had a serpent coiled about my neck than look on your eyes...What...is it you, toad?...fat toad!...wretched toad!...Forgive...Forgive!
Why have you come to this earth where the accursed are?
But what have you done to your viscous, reeking pustules to look so gentle?
When you came from on high by command from above, with the mission of consoling the different races of living beings, you struck the earth with the speed of the kite in your long magnificent flight; I saw you!
Poor toad!
How often did I think of infinity then, and of my own weakness.
“Another who is superior to those of the earth,” I said to myself.
“By divine will.
Why should I not be, too?
To what purpose this injustice in divine decrees?
He, the Creator, is mad; and yet, he is the strongest, his wrath is dreadful!
Since you appeared to me, monarch of pools and swamps, arrayed in the glory which belongs to God alone, you have in part consoled me.
But my stumbling reason founders before such greatness!
Who are you?
Stay...oh stay on this earth.
Fold your white wings, and do not look up with such anxious eyes.
If you must leave, let us leave together!”’ The toad sits on his haunches (which so resemble those of men) and, while slugs, lice and snails flee at the sight of their deadly enemy, he speaks in these terms: ‘Maldoror, listen to me.
Look on my face, calm as a mirror.
I believe my intelligence is equal to yours.
One day you called me the mainstay of your life.
Since then I have not proved unworthy of the confidence you put in me.
I am only a simple dweller among the reeds, it is true; but thanks to my contract with you, taking only what was beautiful in you, my mind has become more exalted, I can speak to you.
I have come to you to haul you from the depths.
Those who call themselves your friends are struck with consternation when they see you, pale and stooping, in theatres, in public places, in churches, or with your two sinewy thighs pressed against that horse which gallops only by night as it carries its phantom master, wrapped in his long, black cloak.
Abandon these thoughts, which make your heart as empty as the desert; they are more burning than fire.
Your mind is so sick that you do not realize it; you think you are perfectly normal when you are uttering the most senseless words (though full of infernal grandeur).
Wretch!
what have you said since the day of your birth?
O sad remnant of an immortal intelligence, which God created with so much love!
You have engendered only curses more frightful than the sight of ravenous panthers.
For my part, I would prefer to have my eyelids struck down, to have a body without legs or arms, to have murdered a man, than to be you!
Because I hate you.
Why do you have this character which astonishes me?
What right do you have to come to this earth and pour scorn on those who live on it, rotten wreck buoyed up by skepticism?
If you do not like it here, you should return to the spheres from where you came.
A city-dweller should not reside in a village, like a foreigner.
We know that in space there exist spheres more spacious than our own, whose spirits have an intelligence of which we cannot even conceive.
Well...go there then.
Leave this moving ground!
Show at last your divine essence, which you have kept hidden until now; and as soon as possible, direct your rising flight towards your sphere, which we do not at all envy you, proud that you are!
For I have not managed to discover whether you are a man or more than a man!
Adieu, then.
Do not hope to encounter the toad again on your way.
You have been the cause of my death.
I leave for eternity, to beg your forgiveness!’   14  It is sometimes logical to refer to the appearances of phenomena, this first song finishes here.
Do not be severe on him who has yet only been tuning his lyre; it makes such a strange sound!
However, if you are impartial, you will already have recognized a strong stamp amid the imperfections.
As for me, I shall resume my work, to bring out, without too great a delay, a second song.
The end of the nineteenth century will have its poet (yet, to start with, he must not produce a masterpiece, but follow the law of nature); he was born on American shores, at the mouth of the Plata, where two nations, once rivals are now striving to surpass each other in moral and material progress.
Buenos Aires, the Queen of the South, and Montevideo, the coquette, stretch out their hands in friendship across the silvery waters of the great estuary.
But eternal war holds destructive sway over these lands, joyously reaping countless victims.
Adieu, old man, think of me if you have read me: and you, young man, do not despair; for whatever you may believe to the contrary, you have a friend in the vampire.
And counting the scab-producing sarcoptes-mite, you will have two friends!
SECOND BOOK   1  What has become of Maldoror’s first song, since his mouth, full of belladonna leaves, uttered it through the realms of anger, in a moment of reflection?...What has become of this song...We do not know exactly.
It is not in the trees, nor in the winds.
And morality, passing through that place, not foreseeing that it had found in these incandescent pages an energetic advocate, saw him making for the dark recesses and secret fibres of consciousness, with a firm straight step.
This much at least we do know; since that time, toad-faced man can no longer recognize himself, often falling into fist of rage which make him seem like a beast of the forest.
It is not his fault.
For ages, his eyelids weighed down beneath resedas of modesty, he had believed himself to consist only of good, and a minimal quantity of evil.
Revealing his heart with all its wicked plots to him, I bluntly taught him the reverse: that he consists of evil only, with a minimal quantity of good which legislators are hard pressed to prevent from evaporating completely.
In this I am teaching him nothing new and I wish he would not feel eternal shame at these bitter truths of mine; but the realization of this wish would not conform to the laws of nature.
In fact I am tearing the mask off his false and slime-covered face, dropping, like ivory balls into a silver bowl, the sublime lies with which he deceives himself: it is understandable, then, that he cannot summon a look of calm on to his face, even when reason disperses the darkness of pride.
That is why the hero I present has brought upon himself implacable hatred, by attacking humanity, which thought itself invulnerable, through the breach of absurd philosophical tirades; these abound like grains of sand in his books, the comic qualities of which I am sometimes, whenever my reason abandons me, on the point of finding so droll—but tiresome.
He had foreseen it.
It is not enough to sculpt statues of goodness on shelves of libraries where parchments are stored.
O human being, here you are now, naked as a worm, in the presence of my sword of diamond!
Abandon your method; the time for pride is past: prostrated before you, I offer up this prayer.
There is someone who observes the smallest actions of your guilty lives.
You are ensnared by the subtle network of his relentless perspicacity.
Do not trust him when his back is turned; for he is watching you; do not trust him when his eyes are closed, for he is still watching you.
It is difficult to conceive that you can have made the dreadful resolution to surpass the child of my imagination in matters of guile and wickedness.
His least blows are fatal.
If one is careful, one can teach him who does not know it that wolves and brigands do not devour one another: perhaps they are not in the habit of doing so.
Therefore fearlessly entrust all care for your existence to him: he will guide it in the direction he knows so well.
Do not believe in his apparent intention of making you better; for you are, to say the least, only of indifferent interest to him: even in saying this I am making allowances in your favour.
What I have said does not approach the whole truth.
But it is because he delights in doing evil to you, rightly convinced that you will become as wicked as he and that you will accompany him, when the time comes, into hell’s gaping abyss.
His place has long since been appointed, the place where an iron gibbet stands, with chains and halters hanging from it.
When destiny brings him there, the dismal pit beneath the trap door will never have tasted more delicious prey, nor will he ever have contemplated a more fitting habitation.
It seems that I am speaking an in intentionally paternal manner, and that humanity has no right to complain.
2  I am grasping the pen which is going to compose the second song...an instrument torn from the wings of some red pyraugue!
But what is wrong with my fingers?
The joints remain paralysed, as soon as I want to start my work.
Yet I need to write...It is impossible!
I repeat that I need to write my thoughts.
I have, like any other man, the right to submit to this natural law...But no, no, still the pen will not move!
What is this?
See the lightning flashing in the distance, across the countryside.
The storm is crossing the sky.
It is raining...Still it is raining...How it rains!
The thunder has burst, it has beaten down on my open window, stretching me out on the floor.
It has struck me on the forehead.
Poor young man!
Your face was already disfigured enough by premature wrinkles and the deformity of birth.
It did not need this long sulphurous scar, too!
(I have just assumed the wound has healed, but it will be some time before that happens).
What do the storm and the paralysing of my fingers mean?
Is it a warning from on high to make me think twice about the risks I am running by distilling the saliva of my square mouth?
But this storm did not frighten me.
What would a legion of storms matter to me?
These celestial policemen carry out their difficult duties with zeal, if I am to judge summarily by my wounded forehead.
I do not need to thank the Almighty for his remarkable skill; he aimed the thunderbolt so that it cut my face exactly in two; from the forehead, where the injury was most critical, down to the neck.
Let someone else congratulate him on his accuracy!
But these storms attack one who is stronger than they.
And so, viper-faced Eternal One, not content with placing my soul between the frontiers of madness and these frenzied thoughts which are slowly killing me, you had to decide, after mature consideration, that it befitted your majesty to make torrents of blood gush from my brow!
But what can you hope to achieve?
You know that I do not love you, that I in fact hate you.
Why do you persist?
When will your behaviour cease to be enshrouded in all the appearances of strangeness?
Speak to me frankly, as a friend.
Do you not suspect that your odious persecution of me is characterized by a naive eagerness which is utterly ridiculous, though none of your seraphim would dare to point this out to you?
What rage has taken hold of you?
I want you to know that if you abandoned the pursuit and let me live in peace I would be grateful to you...Go on then, Sultan, lick the floor and rid me of the blood which has stained it.
The bandaging is finished: my brow has been stanched and washed with salt-water, I have wound bandlets around my face.
There is not much to speak of: four blood-drenched shirts, two handkerchiefs.
One would not think at first sight that Maldoror had so much blood in his arteries, for his face has only a waxen, corpse-like sheen.
But there it is.
Perhaps that is all the blood his body could contain, and it is probably that there is not much more left.
Enough, enough, you greedy dog; leave the floor as it is; your belly is full.
You must no go on drinking; for you would very quickly start vomiting.
You have glutted yourself adequately, now go and lie down in your kennel; consider yourself swimming in bliss; for three immense days you will not think of hunger, thanks to the globules which you have swallowed with visible and solemn satisfaction.
And you, Leman, take a broom; I should like to take one, too, but I do not have the strength.
You understand, do you not, that I do not have the strength?
Put your tears back in their scabbard, or else I will think that you are not courageous enough to contemplate in composure the huge gash occasioned by a punishment which for me is already lost in the night of past time.
You will go to the fountain and fetch two pails of water.
Once you have washed the floor, you will take the linen into the next room.
If the laundress comes back this evening, as she should, you will give it to her; but as it has been raining heavily for an hour and is raining still, I do not think she will leave her house; in that case, she will come tomorrow.
If she should ask you where all this blood comes from, you are not obliged to answer her.
Oh, how weak I am!
No matter; I shall nonetheless be strong enough to raise my pen-holder, and courageous enough to work out my thoughts.
What concern was it of the Creator’s, that he should plague me with the thunderstorm as if I were a child?
I shall nonetheless persist in my resolve to write.
These bandelets are a nuisance, the air in my room is thick with blood...   3  May the day never come when Lohengrin and I pass one another in the street, brushing against one another like strangers in a hurry!
Oh let me flee for ever far from this thought!
The Eternal One has created the world as it is: He would have been very wise if, in the time strictly necessary to break a woman's skull with hammer-blows, He had forgotten his sidereal majesty for a moment to reveal to us the mysteries amid which our existence stifles like a fish flailing on the ship's deck.
But he is great and noble; He prevails over us by the might of his conceptions; if He parleyed with men, all His disgraceful acts would be flung in His face.
But...wretch that you are!
Why do you not blush?
It is not enough that the army of physical and moral afflictions which surrounds us should have been created: the secret of our shabby destiny is not even revealed to us.
I know the Almighty...and He too must know me.
If we chance to be walking along the same path, His sharp eyes see me coming from afar: He crosses the road, to avoid the triple platinum dart which nature gave me for a tongue!
You will do me the favour, O Creator, of letting me give vent to my feelings.
Wielding my terrible ironies in my firm untrembling hand, I warn you that my heart will contain enough to keep on attacking you until my existence ends.
I shall strike your hollow carcass; but so hard that I undertake to knock out the remaining portions of intelligence which you did not want to give to man, because you were jealous at the thought that he would become your equal and which, cunning bandit, you had shamelessly hidden in your bowels, as if you did not know that one day I would discover them with my never-closing eyes, take them away and share them with my fellows.
This I have done and now they no longer fear you; now they deal with you on an equal footing.
Come, kill me and make me repent my boldness: I bare my breast and await you with humility.
Appear, then, derisory spans of eternal punishments!
Pompous displays of over-rated qualities!
He has proved incapable of stopping the circulation of my blood which defies Him.
Yet I have proofs that he does not hesitate to stop the breath of other human beings in their prime, who have scarcely tasted the delights of life.
It is quite appalling, in my humble opinion!
I have seen the Creator whetting His futile cruelty, kindling fires in which old men and children alike have died.
It was not I who started the attack; it is He who forces me to turn around with my steel-cord whip, like a spinning-top.
Does He not Himself provide me with the accusations I use against Him?
My terrifying verve will not flag.
It thrives on the senseless nightmares of my sleepless nights.
And this has been written for the sake of Lohengrin; so let us return to him.
Fearing that he would become like other men later, I had at first resolved to stab him to death once he had passed the age of innocence.
But I reconsidered and wisely abandoned my resolution in time.
He does not suspect that his life was in danger for a quarter of an hour.
Everything was ready, and the knife had been bought.
It had a fine and delicate blade, for I like grace and elegance even in the instruments of death; but it was long and pointed.
Just one cut in the neck, carefully piercing the carotid artery, would have been enough, I think.
I am glad I acted as I did; I would have regretted it later.
So, Lohengrin, do whatever you wish, whatever you please; lock me up forever in a dark prison with scorpions as the only companions of my captivity, or pull out my eye till it falls to the ground, I shall never reproach you in the least; I am yours, I belong to you, I no longer live for myself.
The pain you cause me will not be comparable to the joy of knowing that he who wounds me with his murderous hands is steeped in an essence more divine than that of his fellows!
Yet it is still noble to give one's life for another human being and thus to keep alive the hope that not all men are wicked, since there has been one who overcame my mistrust and aversion and attracted himself to my bitter sympathy.
4  It is midnight; there is no longer a single omnibus to be seen, from the Bastille to the Madelaine.
I am wrong; here is one which has appeared suddenly, as if from under the earth.
A few late passers-by are looking at it attentively; for it does not resemble any other.
On the open top deck men are sitting, with fixed unmoving eyes like dead fish.
They are hunched up tight beside one another and seem to be lifeless; apart from that, the number of passengers permitted by the regulations has not been exceeded.
When the coachman whips his horses, you would think it was the whip moving his hand, not his hand moving the whip.
Who can this group of strange dumb people be?
Are they moon-dwellers?
There are moments when one would be tempted to believe so; but they are more like corpses.
The omnibus, anxious to arrive at the last stop, tears through space, making the roads rattle...It is disappearing!...But a shapeless form is madly pursuing it, in its wake, amid the dust.
'Stop, I beg you, stop...my legs are swollen from a day's walking...I have not eaten since yesterday...My parents have abandoned me...I do not know what to do now...I have made up my mind to go back home and I would be there soon if you would let me have a seat...I am only a little boy, eight years old, I trust in you...’ It is disappearing!...It is disappearing!...But a shapeless form is madly pursuing it, in its wake, amid the dust.
One of the men, cold-eyed, nudges his neighbour and seems to be expressing his displeasure at these silvery moans which reach his ears.
The other imperceptibly nods his head in agreement, only to plunge again into motionless self-absorption, like a tortoise into his shell.
Everything in the expressions of the other travelers indicates that their feelings are the same as the first two.
The cries can be heard for two or three minutes, becoming shriller every second.
Along the boulevard one can see windows being opened and the frightened face of someone with a candle in his hand who, having looked out into the street, slams the shutters to again, and does not reappear...It is disappearing!...It is disappearing!...But a shapeless form pursues it madly, in its wake, amid the dust.
Among all the stony faces, only a young man absorbed in reverie seems to feel any pity for the boy's misery.
He does not dare to raise his voice on behalf of the child, who still thinks he can reach the omnibus with his aching little feet; for the other men are casting contemptuous, imperious looks at him and he knows he can do nothing against their will.
Stunned, his head in his hands, his elbows resting on his knees, he wonders if this is an example of ‘human charity.’ Then he realizes that it is only an empty phrase which is no longer even to be found in the dictionary of poetry, and he freely admits his mistake.
He says to himself: ‘In fact, why should I be interested in this small child?
Let us leave him behind.’ Yet a hot tear rolls down the cheek of this adolescent who has just blasphemed.
Uneasy, he passes his hand across his brow, as if to push away a cloud whose opacity darkens his intelligence.
He is struggling in vain in the century into which he has been thrown; he feels that this is not where he belongs, and yet he cannot get out.
Terrible prison!
Dreadful fatality!
Lombano, since that day I have been well pleased with you!
I did not cease to observe you, while my face appeared to be as indifferent as that of the other travelers.
With an impulse of indignation the adolescent gets up and wants to go away, so as not to participate, even unwillingly, in an evil action.
I beckon him, and he comes to my side...It is disappearing!...It is disappearing!...But a shapeless form pursues it madly, in its wake, amid the dust.
Suddenly, the cries cease; for the child has tripped over a stone protruding from the road’s surface, and he has injured his head in falling.
The omnibus has disappeared over the horizon and all that can be seen now is the silent street...
It is disappearing!...It is disappearing!...But a shapeless form no longer pursues it madly, in its wake, amid the dust.
Behold a ragman passing, bending over the child with his dim lantern in his hand; he has more goodness of heart than all his fellows in the omnibus.
He has just lifted up the child; you may be sure that he will heal him, that he will not abandon him as his parents did.
It is disappearing!...It is disappearing!...But from where he is standing the ragman’s piercing look pursues it madly, in its wake, amid the dust.
Stupid, idiotic race!
You will regret having acted thus!
It is I who tell you.
You will regret it!
My poetry will consist exclusively of attacks on man, that wild beast, and the Creator, who ought never to have bred such vermin.
Volume after volume will accumulate, till the end of my life; yet this single idea only will be found, ever present in my mind!
5  On my daily walk I used to pass through a narrow street every day.
Every day a slim ten-year-old girl would follow me along the street, keeping a respectful distance, looking at me with sympathetic, curious eyes.
She was big for her age, and had a well-shaped body.
Long, black hair, parted on her head, fell in separate tresses on to shoulders like marble.
One day she was following me as usual; the sturdy arms of a woman of the people caught her by the hair, like a whirlwind catches a leaf, and slapped her twice, brutally, on her proud, silent face.
Then she brought that straying consciousness back home.
I tried in vain to appear unconcerned; she never failed to pursue me, though her presence had by now become irksome.
When I took a different route, she would stop, struggling violently to control herself, at the end of the street, standing still as the statue of silence, and she would not cease looking before her until I was out of sight.
One day this girl went on ahead of me in the street, and fell into step with me.
If I walked faster to pass by her, she almost ran to keep the same distance between us.
But if I slowed down so that there would be a large space between us, she slowed down too, and did so with all the grace of childhood.
When we reached the end of the street, she slowly turned round barring my way.
There was no time no for me to slip away; now I stood before her.
Her eyes were swollen and red.
It was easy to see that she wanted to speak to me, but did not know how to go about it.
Her face suddenly turning pate as a corpse, she asked me: ‘Would you be so kind as to tell me what time it is?’ I told her I did not have a watch and walked rapidly away.
And since that day, child of the troubled and precocious imagination, you have not seen in your narrow street the mysterious young man whose heavy sandals could be heard clattering along those winding roads.
The appearance of this blazing comet will never be repeated; the mournful object of your fanatical curiosity will no longer flash on the facade of your disappointed observation.
And you will often think, too often, perhaps always, of him who did not seem to be worried about the good and evil of this life, who went haphazardly away—with his face horribly dead, his hair standing on end, with a tottering gait, his arms swimming blindly in the ironic waters of ether, as if he were seeking there the bleeding prey of hope, continually buoyed up, through the immense regions of space, by the implacable snow-plough of fatality.
You will see me no more, and I will no longer see you!...Who knows?
Perhaps this young girl was not what she appeared to be.
Perhaps boundless cunning, eighteen years’ experience and the charm of vice were hidden beneath her innocent appearance.
Young sellers of love have been known to leave the British Isles gaily behind them and cross the channel.
They spread their wings, whirling in golden swarms in the Parisian light; and whenever they were seen, people would say: ‘they are no more than ten or twelve years old’.
But in reality they were twenty.
Oh, if this supposition be true, cursed be the windings of that dark street!
Horrible!
horrible!
the things that happen there.
I think her mother struck her because she was not plying her trade skillfully enough.
It is possible that she was only a child and, in that case, the mother is even more guilty.
For my part, I refuse to believe this supposition, which is only a hypothesis and I prefer to see and to love, in this romantic character, a soul revealing itself too soon...Ah, young girl, I charge you not to reappear before me, if ever I return to that narrow street.
It could cost you dear!
No!
No!
I, generous enough to love my fellows!
I have resolved against it since the day of my birth!
They do not love me!
Worlds will be destroyed, granite will glide like a cormorant on the surface of the waves before I touch the infamous hands of another human being.
Back...back with that hand!
Young girl, you are no angel, you will become like other women after all.
No, no, I implore you, do not reappear before my frowning squinting eyes.
In a moment of distraction I might take your arms and wring them like linen which is squeezed after washing, or break them with a crack like two dry branches and then forcible make you eat them.
Taking our head between my hands with a gentle, caressing air, I might dig my greedy fingers into the lobes of your innocent brain—to extract, with a smile on my lips, a substance which is good ointment to bathe my eyes, sore from the eternal insomnia of life.
I might, by stitching you eyelids together, deprive you of the spectacle of the universe, and make it impossible for you to see your way; and then I should certainly not act as your guide.
I might, raising your virgin body in my iron arms, seize you by the legs and swing you around me like a front, concentrating all my strength as I described the final circle, and hurling you against the wall.
Each drop of your blood would spurt on to a human breast, to frighten men and to set before them an example of my wickedness.
They will tear shreds and shreds of flesh from their bodies; but the drop of blood remains, ineffaceable, in the same place, and will shin like a diamond.
Do not be alarmed.
I will instruct half a dozen servants to keep the venerated remains of your body and to protect them from the ravenous hunger of the dogs.
No doubt the body has remained stuck to the wall like a ripe pear and has not fallen to the earth; but a dog can jump extremely high, if one is not careful...   6  How delightful this child is, sitting on a bench in the Tuileries garden.
His bold eyes dart looks at some invisible object, far off in the distance.
He cannot be more than eight years old, yet he is not playing happily and in a manner which would befit one of his years.
He should at least be laughing and walking with some friend, but to do so would not be in character.
How delightful this child is, sitting on a bench in the Tuileries garden!
A man, moved by a hidden design, comes and sits beside him on the bench.
His manner is suspicious.
Who is he?
I need not tell you, for you will recognize him by his tortuous conversation.
Let us listen to them, without disturbing them: ‘What were you thinking of, my child?’ ‘I was thinking of heaven.’ ‘You do not need to think about heaven.
It is quite enough to think about this earth.
Are you tired of life, you who have only just been born?’ ‘No, but everyone prefers heaven to earth.’ ‘Not I.
For since heaven, like earth, has been made by God, you may be sure that there you will meet the same evils as down here.
After your death you will not be rewarded according to you merits; for injustices are done you on this earth (and experience will later teach you that they are), there is no reason why, in the next life, they should not continue to be committed.
The best thing you can do is not to think of God and to take the law into your own hands, since justice is denied you.
If one of your companions offended you, would you not be glad to kill him?’ ‘But it is forbidden.’ ‘It is not as forbidden as you think.
It is just a matter of not getting caught.
The justice of laws is worthless; it is the jurisprudence of the offended party which counts.
If you detested one of your companions, would you not be wretched at the thought of constantly having his image before your mind’s eye?’ ‘That is true.’ ‘Such a companion would make you wretched for the rest of your life; for, seeing that your hatred is only passive, he will continue to sneer at you and hurt you with impunity.
So there is only one way of putting an end to the situation; that is to get rid of one’s enemy.
This is the point I wanted to make, so that you would understand the basis on which our present society is founded.
Each man, unless he is simply an imbecile, must take the law into his own hands.
He who gains victory over his fellow-men is the cleverest and the strongest.
Would you not like to dominate your fellow-men?’ ‘Yes, yes.’ ‘Then be the strongest and the cleverest.
You are too young yet to be the strongest; but from today you can use guile, the finest instrument of men of genius.
When the shepherd-boy David struck the giant Goliath’s forehead with a stone from a sling, is it not wonderful to note that it was only cunning which enabled David to conquer his adversary and that if on the other hand it had come to a hand-to-hand fight, the giant would have crushed him like a fly?
In open war you will never be able to conquer men, on whom you wish to impose your will; but with cunning you can fight alone against them all.
You desire riches, palaces, fame?
Or were you deceiving me when you declared these noble aspirations?’ ‘No, no, I was not deceiving you.
But I would like to attain what I want by other means.’ ‘Then you will achieve nothing.
Virtuous and well-meaning methods lead nowhere.
You must bring into play more powerful levers, more cunningly contrived traps.
Before your virtue has brought you fame, before you have achieved your goal, a hundred others will have time to leap- frog over your back and arrive at the winning-post ahead of you, so that there will be no more room left for your narrow ideas.
One must be able to embrace more amply the horizon of the present time.
Have you not heard for example of the immense glory victories bring?
And yet victories do not simply happen.
Blood must be shed, a lot of blood, to achieve them and to lay them at the feet of conquerors.
Without the corpses and the scattered limbs you see on the plain where carnage is wisely practised, there would be no war and, without war, there would be no victory.
You see that, when one wants to be famous, one has to dive gracefully into rivers of the blood of cannon-blasted bodies.
The end excuses the means.
The first thing you need to be famous is to have money.
Now, as you have none, you will have to murder to acquire it; but as you are not strong enough to handle a dagger, become a thief until your limbs are big enough.
That they may grow more quickly, I advise you to do gymnastics twice a day, one hour in the morning, one at night.
In this way, you will be able to start your career of crime at fifteen, instead of waiting till you are twenty.
Love of glory excuses everything and perhaps later when you are the master of your fellow-men you will do them almost as much good as you did them harm in the beginning!...’ Maldoror notices that the blood is boiling in his young interlocutor’s head; his nostrils are swollen; his lips are flecked with a light white foam.
He feels his pulse; it is beating very fast.
