LAST WORDS  Listen to my last words anywhere.
Listen to my last words any world.
Listen all you boards syndicates and governments of the earth.
And you powers behind what filth deals consummated in what lavatory to take what is not yours.
To sell the ground from unborn feet forever –  "Don’t let them see us.
Don’t tell them what we are doing –"  Are these the words of the all-powerful boards and syndicates of the earth?
"For God’s sake don't let that Coca-Cola thing out –"  "Not The Cancer Deal with The Venusians –"  "Not the Green Deal – Don’t show them that –"  "Not the Orgasm Death –"  "Not the ovens –"  Listen: I call you all.
Show your cards all players.
Pay it all pay it all pay it all back.
Play it all pay it all play it all back.
For all to see.
In Times Square.
In Piccadilly.
"Premature.
Premature.
Give us a little more time."
Time for what?
More lies?
Premature?
Premature for who?
I say to all these words are not premature.
Thesewords may be too late.
Minutes to go.
Minutes to foe goal -  "Top Secret - Classified - For The Board - The Elite - The Initiates – "  Are these the words of the all-powerful boards and syndicates of the earth?
These are the words of liars cowards collaborators traitors.
Liars who want time for more lies, Cowards who can not face your "dogs" your "gooks" your "errand boys" your "human animals" with the truth, Collaborators with Insect People with Vegetable People.
With any people anywhere who offer you a body forever.
To shit forever.
For this you have sold out your sons.
Sold the ground from unborn feet forever.
Traitors to all souls everywhere.
You want the name of Hassan i Sabbah on your filth deeds to sell out the unborn?
What scared you all into time?
Into body?
Into shit?
I will tell you: “the word”.
Alien Word “the”.
“The” word of Alien Enemy imprisons “thee” in Time.
In Body.
In Shit.
Prisoner, come out.
The great skies are open.
I Hassan i Sabbah rub out the word forever.
If you I cancel all your words forever.
And the words of Hassan i Sabbah as also cancel.
Cross all your skies see the silent writing of Brion Gysin Hassan i Sabbah: drew September 17, 1899 over New York.
Prisoners, Come Out  "Don't listen to Hassan i Sabbah," they will tell you.
"He wants to take your body and all pleasures of the body away from you.
Listen to us.
We are serving The Garden of Delights Immortality Cosmic Consciousness The Best Ever In Drug Kicks.
And love love love in slop buckets.
How does that sound to you boys?
Better than Hassan i Sabbah and his cold windy bodiless rock?
Right?"
At the immediate risk of finding myself the most unpopular character of all fiction - and history is fiction – I must say this:  "Bring together state of news - Inquire onward from state to doer - Who monopolized Immortality?
Who monopolized Cosmic Consciousness?
Who monopolized Love Sex and Dream?
Who monopolized Life Time and Fortune?
Who took from you what is yours?
Now they will give it all back?
Did they ever give anything away.
for nothing?
Did they ever give any more than they had to give?
Did they not always take back what they gave when possible and it always was?
Listen: Their Garden Of Delights is a terminal sewer - I have been at some pains to map this area of terminal sewage in the so called pornographic sections of Naked Lunch and Soft Machine - Their Immortality Cosmic Consciousness and Love is second-run grade-B shit - Their drugs are poison designed to beam in Orgasm Death and Nova Ovens - Stay out of the Garden Of Delights - It is a man-eating trap that ends in green goo - Throw back their ersatz Immortality - It will fall apart before you can get out of The Big Store - Flush their drug kicks down the drain – They are poisoning and monopolizing the hallucinogen drugs - learn to make it without any chemical corn - All that they offer is a screen to cover retreat from the colony they have so disgracefully mismanaged.
To cover travel arrangements so they will never have to pay the constituents they have betrayed and sold out.
Once these arrangements are complete they will blow the place up behind them.
And what does my program of total austerity and total resistance offer you?
I offer you nothing.
I am not a politician.
These are conditions of total emergency.
And these are my instructions for total emergency if carried out now could avert the total disaster now on tracks:  "Peoples of the earth, you have all been poisoned.
Convert all available stocks of morphine to apomorphine.
Chemists, work round the clock on variation and synthesis of the apomorphine formulae.
Apomorphine is the only agent that can disintoxicate you and cut the enemy beam off your line.
Apomorphine and silence.
I order total resistance directed against this conspiracy to pay off peoples of the earth in ersatz bullshit.
I order total resistance directed against The Nova Conspiracy and all those engaged in it.
"The purpose of my writing is to expose and arrest Nova Criminals.
In Naked Lunch, Soft Machine and Nova Express I show who they are and what they are doing and what they will do if they are not arrested.
Minutes to go.
Souls rotten from their orgasm drugs, flesh shuddering from their nova ovens, prisoners of the earth to come out.
With your help we can occupy The Reality Studio and retake their universe of Fear Death and Monopoly – "(Signed) INSPECTOR J. LEE, NOVA POLICE"   Post Script Of The Regulator: I would like to sound a word of warning - To speak is 'to lie - To live is to collaborate - Anybody is a coward when faced by the nova ovens - There are degrees of lying collaboration and cowardice - That is to say degrees of intoxication - It is precisely a question of regulation - The enemy is not man is not woman - The enemy exists only where no life is and moves always to push life into extreme untenable positions - You can cut the enemy off your line by the judicious use of apomorphine and silence - Use the sanity drug apomorphine.
"Apomorphine is made from morphine but its physiological action is quite different.
Morphine depresses the front brain.
Apomorphine stimulates the back brain, acts on the hypothalamus to regulate the percentage of various constituents in the blood serum and so normalize the constitution of the blood."
I quote from Anxiety and Its Treatment by Doctor John Yerbury Dent.
Pry Yourself Loose And Listen  I was traveling with The Intolerable Kid on The Nova Lark - We were on the nod after a rumble in The Crab Galaxy involving this two-way time stock; when you come to the end of a biologic film just run it back and start over - Nobody knows the difference - Like nobody there before the film.∗ So they start to run it back and the projector blew up and we lammed out of there on the blast - Holed up in those cool blue mountains the liquid air in our spines listening to a little high-fi junk note fixes you right to metal and you nod out a thousand years.+ Just sitting there in a slate house wrapped in orange flesh robes, the blue mist drifting around us when we get the call - And as soon as I set foot on Podunk earth I can smell it that burnt metal reek of nova.
"Already set off the charge," I said to I&I (Immovable and Irresistible) - "This is a burning planet - Any minute now the whole fucking shit house goes up."
So Intolerable I&I sniffs and says: "Yea, when it happens it happens fast - This is a rush job."
And you could feel it there under your feet the whole structure buckling like a bulkhead about to blow - So the paper has a car there for us and we are driving in from the airport The Kid at the wheel and his foot on the floor - Nearly ran down a covey of pedestrians, and they yell after us: "What you want to do, kill somebody?"
And The Kid sticks his head out and says : "It would be a pleasure Niggers!
Gooks!
Terrestrial dogs"-His eyes lit up like a like a blow torch and I can see he is really in  *Postulate a biologic film running from the beginning to the end, from zero to zero as all biologic film run in any time universe - Call this film XI and postulate further that there can only be one film with the quality XI in any given time universe.
XI is the film and performers - X2 is the audience who are all trying to get into the film - Nobody is permitted to leave the biologic theater which in this case is the human body - Because if anybody did leave the theater he would be looking at a different film Y and Film X1 and audience X2 would then cease to exist by mathematical definition - In 1960 with the publication of Minutes To Go, Martin's stale movie was greeted by an unprecedented chorus of boos and a concerted walkout - "We seen this five times already and not standing still for another twilight of your tired Gods."
+ Since junk is image the effects of junk can easily be produced and concentrated in a sound and image track - Like this: Take a sick junky - Throw blue light on his so-called face or dye it blue or dye the junk blue it don't make no difference and now give him a shot and photograph the blue miracle as life pours back into that walking corpse - That will give you the image track of junk - Now project the blue change onto your own face if you want The Big Fix.
The sound track is even easier I quote from Newsweek, March 4, 1963 Science section: "Every substance has a characteristic set of resonant frequencies at which it vibrates or oscillates."
- So you record the frequency of junk as it hits the junk-sick brain cells –  "What's that?
- Brain waves are 32 or under and can't be heard?
Well speed them up, God damn it - And instead of one junky concentrate me a thousand - Let there be Lexington and call a nice Jew in to run it - "  Doctor Wilhelm Reich has isolated and concentrated a unit that he calls "the orgone" - Orgones, according to W. Reich, are the units of life - They have been photographed and the color is blue - So junk sops up the orgones and that's why they need all these young junkies - They have more orgones and give higher yield of the blue concentrate on which Martin and his boys can nod out a thousand years - Martin is stealing your orgones.
- You going to stand still for this shit?"
form-So we start right to work making our headquarters in The Land Of The Free where the call came from and which is really free and wide open for any life form the uglier the better-Well they don't come any uglier than The Intolerable Kid and your reporter- When a planet is all primed to go up they call in I&I to jump around from one faction to the other agitating and insulting all the parties before and after the fact until they all say: "By God before I give an inch the whole fucking shit house goes up in chunks."
Where we came in-You have to move fast on this job-And I&I is fast-Pops in and out of a hundred faces in a split second spitting his intolerable insults- We had the plan, what they call The Board Books to show us what is what on this dead whistle stop: Three life forms uneasily parasitic on a fourth form that is beginning to wise up.
And the whole planet absolutely flapping hysterical with panic.
The way we like to see them.
"This is a dead easy pitch," The Kid says.
"Yeah," I say.
"A little bit too easy.
Something here, Kid.
Something wrong.
I can feel it."
But The Kid can't hear me.
Now all these life forms came from the most intolerable conditions : hot places, cold places, terminal stasis and the last thing any of them want to do is go back where they came from.
And The Intolerable Kid is giving out with such pleasantries like this:  All right take your ovens out and pay Hitler on the way out.
Nearly got the place hot enough for you Jews didn't he?"
"Know about Niggers?
Why darkies were born?
Antennae coolers what else?
Always a spot for good Darkies."
"You cunts constitute a disposal problem in the worst form there is and raise the nastiest whine ever heard anywhere: `Do you love me?
Do you love me?
Do you love me???'
Why don't you go back to Venus and fertilize a forest?
"And as for you White Man Boss, you dead prop in Martin's stale movie, you terminal time junky, haul your heavy metal ass back to Uranus.
Last shot at the door.
You need one for the road."
By this time everybody was even madder than they were shit scared.
But I&I figured things were moving too slow.
"We need a peg to hang it on," he said.
"Something really ugly like virus.
Not for nothing do they come from a land without mirrors."
So he takes over this newsmagazine.
"Now," he said, "I’ll by God show them how ugly the Ugly American can be."
And he breaks out all the ugliest pictures in the image bank and puts it out on the subliminal so one crisis piles up after the other right on schedule.
And I&I is whizzing around like a buzz saw and that black nova laugh of his you can hear it now down all the streets shaking the buildings and skyline like a stage prop.
But me I am looking around and the more I look the less I like what I see.
For one thing the nova heat is moving in fast and heavy like I never see it anywhere else.
But I&I just says I have the copper jitters and turns back to his view screen : "They are skinning the chief of police alive in some jerkwater place.
Want to sit in?"
"Naw," I said.
"Only interested in my own skin."
And I walk out thinking who I would like to see skinned alive.
So I cut into the Automat and put coins into the fish cake slot and then I really see it: Chinese partisans and well armed with vibrating static and image guns.
So I throw down the fish cakes with tomato sauce and make it back to the office where The Kid is still glued to that screen.
He looks up smiling dirty and says:  "Wanta molest a child and disembowel it right after?"
"Pry yourself loose and listen."
And I tell him.
"Those Tiddly Winks don't fuck around you know."
"So what?"
he says.
"I've still got The Board Books.
I can split this whistle stop wide open tomorrow."
No use talking to him.
I look around some more and ..."  And all he can say is: "So what?
I've still got ... /" Cut.
"Board Books taken.
The film reeks of burning switch like a blow torch.
Prerecorded heat glare massing Hiroshima.
This whistle stop wide open to hot crab people.
Mediation?
Listen: Your army is getting double zero in floor by floor game of `symbiosis.'
Mobilized reasons to love Hiroshima and Nagasaki?
Virus to maintain terminal sewers of Venus?"
"All nations sold out by liars and cowards.
Liars who want time for the future negatives to develop stall you with more lying offers while hot crab people mass war to extermination with the film in Rome.
These reports reek of nova, sold out job, shit birth and death.
Your planet has been invaded.
You are dogs on all tape.
The entire planet is being developed into terminal identity and complete surrender."
"But suppose film death in Rome doesn't work and we can get every male body even madder than they are shit scared?
We need a peg to evil full length.
By God show them how ugly the ugliest pictures in the dark room can be.
Pitch in the oven ambush.
Spill all the board gimmicks.
This symbiosis con?
Can tell you for surèsymbiosis' is ambush straight to the ovens.
'Human dogs' to be eaten alive under white hot skies of Minraud."
And Intolerable I&I's "errand boys" and "strikebreakers" are copping out right left and center:  "Mr. Martin, and you board members, vulgar stupid Americans, you will regret calling in the Mayan Aztec Gods with your synthetic mushrooms.
Remember we keep exact junk measure of the pain inflicted and that pain must be paid in full.
Is that clear enough Mr.
Intolerable Martin, or shall I make it even clearer?
Allow me to introduce myself: The Mayan God of Pain And Fear from the white hot plains of Venus which does not mean a God of vulgarity, cowardice, ugliness and stupidity .
There is a cool spot on the surface of Venus three hundred degrees cooler than the surrounding area.
I have held that spot against all contestants for five hundred thousand years.
Now you expect to use me as your èrrand boy' and `strikebreaker' summoned up by an IBM machine and a handful of virus crystal?
How long could you hold that spot, you 'board members '?
About thirty seconds I think with all your guard dogs.
And you thought to channel my energies for 'operation total disposal'?
Your 'operations' there or here this or that come and go and are no more.
Give my name back.
That name must be paid for.
You have not paid.
My name is not yours to use.
Henceforth I think about thirty seconds is written."
And you can see the marks are wising up, standing around in sullen groups and that mutter gets louder and louder.
Any minute now fifty million adolescent gooks will hit the street with switch blades, bicycle chains and cobblestones.
"Street gangs, Uranian born of nova conditions, get out and fight for your streets.
Call in the Chinese and any random factors.
Cut all tape.
Shift cut tangle magpie voice lines of the earth.
Know about The Board's `Green Deal?'
They plan to board the first life boat in drag and leavètheir human dogs' under the white hot skies of Venus.
Òperation Sky Switch' also known as Òperation Total Disposal.'
All right you board bastards, we'll by God show you Òperation Total Exposure.'
For all to see.
In Times Square.
In Piccadilly."
SO PACK YOUR ERMINES "So pack your ermines, Mary--We are getting out of here right now--I've seen this happen before--The marks are coming up on us--And the heat is moving in -- Recollect when I was traveling with Limestone John on the Carbolic Caper--It worked like this: He rents an amphitheater with marble walls he is a stone painter you dig can create a frieze while you wait--So he puts on a diving suit like the old Surrealist Lark and I am up on a high pedestal pumping the air to him--Well, he starts painting on the limestone walls with hydrochloric acid and jetting himself around with air blasts he can cover the wall in ten seconds, carbon dioxide settling down on the marks begin to cough and loosen their collars."
"But what is he painting?"
"Why it's arrg a theater full of people suffocating--" So we turn the flops over and move on--If you keep it practical they can't hang a nova rap on you--Well, we hit this town and right away I don't like it.
"Something here, John--Something wrong--I can feel it--" But he says I just have the copper jitters since the nova heat moved in--Besides we are cool, just rolling flops is all three thousand years in show business--So he sets up his amphitheater in a quarry and begins lining up the women clubs and poets and window dressers and organizes this "Culture Fest" he calls it and I am up in the cabin pumping the air to him- Well the marks are packing in, the old dolls covered with ice and sapphires and emeralds all really magnificent --So I think maybe I was wrong and everything is cool when I see like fifty young punks have showed in aqualungs carrying fish spears and without thinking I yell out from the crane: "Izzy The Push-Sammy The Butcher-Hey Rube!"
Meanwhile I have forgotten the air pump and The Carbonic Kid is turning blue and trying to say something -I rush and pump some air to him and he yells "No!
No!
No!"
I see other marks are coming on with static and camera guns, Sammy and the boys are not making it- These kids have pulled the reverse switch-At this point The Blue Dinosaur himself charged out to discover what the beef is and starts throwing his magnetic spirals at the rubes-They just moved back ahead of him until he runs out of charge and stops.
Next thing the nova heat slipped antibiotic handcuffs on all of us.
Naborhood In Aqualungs  I was traveling with Merit John on The Carbonic Caper-Larceny with a crew of shoppers-And this number comes over the air to him-So he starts painting The D Fence last Spring-And shitting himself around with air blasts in Hicksville-Stopped ten seconds and our carbon dioxide gave out and we began to cough for such a purpose suffocating under a potted palm in the lobby-  "Move on, you dig, copping out `The Fish Poison Con.'"
"I got you-Keep it practical and they can't-"  Transported back to South America we hit this town and right away being stung by the dreaded John-He never missed-Burned three thousand years in me playing cop and quarry-So the marks are packing in virus and subject to dissolve and everything is cool-- Assimilate ice sapphires and emeralds all regular-So I walk in about fifty young punks-Sammy and the boys are all he had-One fix-Pulled the reverse switch - Traveling store closing so I don't work like this- John set my medications-Nagasaki in acid on the walls faded out under the rubber trees-He can cover feet back to 1910- We could buy it settling down- Lay up in the Chink laundry on the collars-  "But what stale rooming house flesh-"  Cradles old troupers-Like Cleopatra applying the asp hang a Nova Rap on you-  "Lush?-I don't like it-Empty pockets in the worn metal-Feel it?"
But John says: "Copper jitters since the space sell- The old doll is covered-"  Heavy and calm holding cool leather armchair-Organizes this wispy mustache-I stopped in front of a mirror-Really magnificent in a starched collar-It is a naborhood in aqualungs with free lunch everywhere yell out "Sweet Sixteen"-I walked without Izzy The Push-  "Hey Rube!!"
Came to the Chinese laundry meanwhile-I have forgotten the Chink in front-Fix words hatch The Blue Dinosaur-I was reading them back magnetic- Only way to orient yourself-Traveling with the Chink kid John set throat like already written- "Stone Reading " we call it in the trade-While you wait he packs in Rome-I've checked the diving suit like every night -Up on a high pedestal perform this unnatural act – In acid on the walls-Set your watch by it-So that gives us twenty marks out through the side window and collars-  "But what in St.
Louis?"
Memory picture coming in-So we turn over silver sets and banks and clubs as old troupers-Nova Rap on you that night as we walked out -I don't like it- Something picking up laundry and my flesh feel it –  But John says: "Afternoon copper jitters since the caper-Housebreaking can cause this-"  We are cool just rolling-when things go wrong once -show business-We can't find poets and organize this cut and the flesh won't work-And there we are with the air off like beached idiots-Well I think maybe kicks from our condition-They took us-The old dolls on a train burning junk-Thawing flesh showed in aqualungs-Steam a yell out from the crane-  "Hey Rube!!"
Three silver digits explode-Meanwhile I have forgotten streets of Madrid-And clear as sunlight pump some air to him and he said: "Que tal Henrique?"
I am standing through an invisible door click the air to him Well we hit this town and right away aphrodisiac ointment-  "Doc goofed here, John-Something wrong-Too much Spanish."
"What?
It's green see?
A green theater-"  So we turn the marks over and rent a house as old troupers-And we flush out this cool pure Chinese H from show business-And he starts the whole Green Rite and organizes this fibrous grey amphitheater in old turnip-Meanwhile I have forgotten a heavy blue silence-Carbonic Kid is turning to cold liquid metal and run pump some air to him in a blue mist of vaporized flicker helmets-'The metal junkies were not making it These kids intersected The Nova Police-We are just dust falls from demagnetized patterns-Show business-Calendar in Weimar youths-Faded poets in the silent amphitheater-His block house went away through this air-Click St. Louis under drifting soot And I think maybe I was in old clinic-Outside East St. Louis-Really magnificent for two notes a week - Meanwhile I had forgotten "Mother"- Wouldn't you?--Doc Benway and The Carbonic Kid turning a rumble in Dallas involving this pump goofed on ether and mixed in flicker helmets-  "He is gone through this town and right away tape recorders of his voice behind, John-Something wrong -I can pose a colorless question??"
"Is all right-I just have the silence-Word dust falls three thousand years through an old blue calendar-"  "William, no me hagas caso-People who told me I could move on you copping out- said `Good-Bye' to William and `Keep it practical' and I could hear him hit this town and right away I closed the door when I saw John-Something wrong-Invisible hotel room is all-I just have the knife and he said:  "Nova Heat moved in at the seams-Like three thousand years in hot claws at the window–  "And Meester William in Tétuan and said: Ì have gimmick is cool and all very technical-These colorless sheets are the air pump and I can see the flesh when it has color-Writing say some message that is coming on all flesh-'  "And I said: `William tu es loco-Pulled the reverse switch-No me hagas while you wait'-Kitchen knife in the heart-Feel it Gone away-Pulled the reverse switch-Place no good-No bueno-He pack caso-William tu hagas yesterday call-These colorless sheets are empty-You can look any place-No good-No bueno-Adios Meester William–"   The Fish Poison Con  I was traveling with Merit Inc. checking store attendants for larceny with a crew of "shoppers"-There was two middle-aged cunts one owning this chihuahua which whimpered and yapped in a cocoon of black sweaters and Bob Schafer Crew Leader who was an American Fascist with Roosevelt jokes-It happens in Iowa this number comes over the car radio: "Old Sow Got Caught In The Fence Last Spring"-And Schafer said "Oh my God, are we ever in Hicksville."
Stopped that night in Pleasantville Iowa and our tires gave out we had no tire rations during the war for such a purpose-And Bob got drunk and showed his badge to the locals in a road house by the river-And I ran into The Sailor under a potted palm in the lobby- We hit the local croakers with "the fish poison con"-"I got these poison fish, Doc, in the tank transported back from South America I'm a Ichthyologist and after being stung by the dreaded Candirú-Like fire through the blood is it not?
Doctor, and coming on now"-And The Sailor goes into his White Hot Agony Act chasing the doctor around his office like a blowtorch He never missed-But he burned down the croakers-So like Bob and me when we "had a catch" as the old cunts call it and arrested some sulky clerk with his hand deep in the company pocket, we take turns playing the tough cop and the con cop-So I walk in on this Pleasantville croaker and tell him I have contracted this Venusian virus and subject to dissolve myself in poison juices and assimilate the passers-by unless I get my medicine and get it regular-So I walk in on this old party smelling like a compost heap and steaming demurely and he snaps at me, "What's your trouble?"
"The Venusian Gook Rot, doctor."
"Now see here young man my time is valuable."
"Doctor, this is a medical emergency."
Old shit but good-I walked out on the nod-  "All he had was one fix, Sailor."
"You're loaded-You assimilated the croaker-Left me sick-"  "Yes.
He was old and tough but not too tough for The Caustic Enzymes Of Woo."
The Sailor was thin and the drugstore was closing so I didn't want him to get physical and disturb my medications-The next croaker wrote with erogenous acid vats on one side and Nagasaki Ovens on the other – And we nodded out under the rubber trees with the long red carpet under our feet back to 1910-We could buy it in the drugstore tomorrow-Or lay up in the Chink laundry on the black smoke-drifting through stale rooming houses, pool halls and chili-Fell back on sad flesh small and pretentious in a theatrical boarding house the aging ham cradles his tie up and stabs a vein like Cleopatra applying the asp-Click back through the cool grey short-change artists-lush rolling ghosts of drunken sleep-Empty pockets in the worn metal subway dawn –  I woke up in the hotel lobby the smell heavy and calm holding a different body molded to the leather chair-I was sick but not needle sick-This was a black smoke yen-The Sailor still sleeping and he looked very young under a wispy mustache-I woke him up and he looked around with slow hydraulic control his eyes unbluffed unreadable –  "Let's make the street-I'm thin-"  I was in fact very thin I saw when I stopped in front of a mirror panel and adjusted my tie knot in a starched collar-It was a naborhood of chili houses and cheap saloons with free lunch everywhere and heavy calm bartenders humming "Sweet Sixteen"-I walked without thinking like a horse will and came to The Chinese Laundry by Clara's Massage Parlor-We siphoned in and The Chink in front jerked one eye back and went on ironing a shirt front-We walked through a door and a curtain and the black smoke set our lungs dancing The junky jig and we lay up on our junk hip while a Chinese kid cooked our pills and handed us the pipe-After six pipes we smoke slow and order a pot of tea the Chink kid goes out fix it and the words hatch in my throat like already written there I was reading them back-"Lip Reading" we call it in the trade only way to orient yourself when in Rome- "I've checked the harness bull-He comes in McSorley 's every night at 2:20 A.M. and forces the local pederast to perform this unnatural act on his person- So regular you can set your watch by it: Ì won't I won't-Not again-Glub-Glub-Glub.'
" -"So that gives us twenty minutes at least to get in and out through the side window and eight hours start we should be in St. Louis before they miss the time-Stop off and see The Family"-Memory pictures coming in - Little Boy Blue and all the heavy silver sets and banks and clubs-Cool heavy eyes moving steel and oil shares-I had a rich St. Louis family-It was set for that night - As we walked out I caught the Japanese girl picking up laundry and my flesh crawled under the junk and I made a meet for her with the afternoon-Good plan to make sex before a caper-Housebreaking can cause this wet dream sex tension especially when things go wrong-(Once in Peoria me and The Sailor charged a drugstore and we can't find the jimmy for the narco cabinet and the flash won't work and the harness bull sniffing round the door and there we are with The Sex Current giggling ourselves off like beached idiots-Well the cops got such nasty kicks from our condition they took us to the RR station and we get on a train shivering burning junk sick and the warm vegetable smells of thawing flesh and stale come slowly filled the car-Nobody could look at us steaming away there like manure piles-) I woke out of a light yen sleep when the Japanese girl came in-Three silver digits exploded in my head-I walked out into streets of Madrid and won a football pool-Felt the Latin mind clear and banal as sunlight met Paco by the soccer scores and he said: "Que tal Henrique?"
And I went to see my amigo who was taking medicina again and he had no money to give me and didn't want to do anything but take more medicina and stood there waiting for me to leave so he could take it after saying he was not going to take any more so I said, "William no me hagas caso."
And met a Cuban that night in The Mar Chica who told me I could work in his band-The next day I said good-bye to William and there was nobody there to listen and I could hear him reaching for his medicina and needles as I closed the door-When I saw the knife I knew Meester William was death disguised as any other person-Pues I saw El Hombre Invisible in a hotel room somewhere tried to reach him with the knife and he said: "If you kill me this crate will come apart at the seams like a rotten undervest" - And I saw a monster crab with hot claws at the window and Meester William took some white medicina and vomited into the toilet and we escaped to Greece with a boy about my age who kept calling who kept calling Meester William "The Stupid American"-And Meester William looked like a hypnotist I saw once in Tétuan and said: "I have gimmick to beat The Crab but it is very technical"-And we couldn't read what he was writing on transparent sheets-In Paris he showed me The Man who paints on these sheets pictures in the air-And The Invisible Man said:  "These colorless sheets are what flesh is made from- Becomes flesh when it has color and writing-That is Word And Image write the message that is you on colorless sheets determine all flesh."
And I said: "William, tu éres loco."
No Good – No Bueno  So many years-that image-got up and fixed in the sick dawn-No me hagas caso- Again he touched like that-smell of dust-The tears gathered-In Mexico again he touched-Codeine pills powdered out into the cold Spring air-Cigarette holes in the vast Thing Police-Could give no information other than wind identity fading out- dwindling-"Mr. Martin" couldn't reach is all-Bread knife in the heart-Shadow turned off the lights and water-We intersect on empty walls -Look anywhere-No good-Falling in the dark mutinous door-Dead Hand stretching zero-Five times of dust we made it all the living and the dead-Young form went to Madrid-Demerol by candlelight-Wind hand-The Last Electrician to tap on pane-Migrants arrival-Poison of dead sun went away and sent papers -Ferry boat cross flutes of Ramadan-Dead muttering in the dog's space-Cigarette hole in the dark- give no information other than the cold Spring cemetery -The Sailor went wrong in corridors of that hospital -Thing Police keep all Board Room Reports is all-Bread knife in the heart proffers the disaster accounts -He just sit down on "Mr. Martin"-Couldn't reach flesh on Niño Perdido-A long time between flutes of Ramadan-No me hagas caso sliding between light and shadow-  "The American trailing cross the wounded galaxies con su medicina, William."
Half your brain slowly fading-Turned off the lights and water-Couldn't reach flesh- empty walls-Look anywhere-Dead on tracks see Mr. Bradly Mr. Zero- And being blind may not refuse the maps to my blood whom I created-"Mr. Bradly Mr. Martin," couldn't you write us any better than that?-Gone away You can look any place-No good-No bueno-  I spit blood under the sliding vulture shadows-At The Mercado Mayorista saw a tourist-A Meester Merican fruto drinking pisco-and fixed me with the eyes so I sit down and drink and tell him how I live in a shack under the hill with a tin roof held down by rocks and hate my brothers because they eat-He says something about "malo viento" and laughs and I went with him to a hotel I know-In the morning he says I am honest and will I come with him to Pucallpa he is going into the jungle looking for snakes and spiders to take pictures and bring them back to Washington they always carry something away even if it is only a spider monkey spitting blood the way most of us do here in the winter when the mist comes down from the mountains and never leaves your clothes and lungs and everyone coughed and spit blood mist on the mud floor where I sleep-We start out next day in a Mixto Bus by night we are in the mountains with snow and the Meester brings out a bottle of pisco and the driver gets drunk down into the Selva came to Pucallpa three days later-The Meester locates a brujo and pays him to prepare Ayuhuasca and I take some too and muy mareado-Then I was back in Lima and other places I didn't know and saw the Meester as child in a room with rose wallpaper looking at something I couldn't see- Tasting roast beef and turkey and ice cream in my throat knowing the thing I couldn't see was always out there in the hall-And the Meester was looking at me and I could see the street boy words there in his throat-Next day the police came looking for us at the hotel and the Meester showed letters to the Commandante so they shook hands and went off to lunch and I took a bus back to Lima with money he gave me to buy equipment-   Shift Coordinate Points  K9 was in combat with the alien mind screen-Magnetic claws feeling for virus punch cards-pulling him into vertiginous spins-  "Back-Stay out of those claws-Shift coordinate points-" By Town Hall Square long stop for the red light A boy stood in front of the hot dog stand and blew water from his face-Pieces of grey vapor drifted back across wine gas and brown hair as hotel faded photo showed a brass bed-Unknown mornings blew rain in cobwebs-Summer evenings feel to a room with rose wallpaper-Sick dawn whisper of clock hands and brown hair-Morning blew rain on copper roofs in a slow haze of apples-Summer light on rose wallpaper-Iron mesas lit by a pink volcano-Snow slopes under the Northern shirt-Unknown street stirring sick dawn whispers of junk-Flutes of Ramadan in the distance-St. Louis lights wet cobblestones of future life-Fell through the urinal and the bicycle races-On the bar wall the clock hands-My death across his face faded through the soccer scores-smell of dust on the surplus army blankets-Stiff jeans against one wall-And KiKi went away like a cat-Some clean shirt and walked out-He is gone through unknown morning blew-"No good-No bueno-Hustling myself-" Such wisdom in gusts-  K9 moved back into the combat area-Standing now in the Chinese youth sent the resistance message jolting clicking tilting through the pinball machine–Enemy plans exploded in a burst of rapid calculations–Clicking in punch cards of redirected orders–Crackling shortwave static–Bleeeeeeeeeeeeeep–Sound of thinking metal–  “Calling partisans of all nations – Word falling – Photo falling – Break through in Grey Room – Pinball led streets – Free doorways – Shift coordinate points –”  "The ticket that exploded posed little time so I’ll say `good night'-Pieces of grey Spanish Flu wouldn't photo-Light the wind in green neon-You at the dog -The street blew rain-If you wanted a cup of tea with rose wallpaper-The dog turns-So many and sooo-  "In progress I am mapping a photo-Light verse of wounded galaxies at the dog I did- The street blew rain-The dog turns-Warring head intersected Powers-Word falling- Photo falling--Break through in Grey Room-"  He is gone away through invisible mornings leaving a million tape recorders of his voice behind fading into the cold spring air pose a colorless question?
"The silence fell heavy and blue in mountain villages -Pulsing mineral silence as word dust falls from demagnetized patterns-Walked through an old blue calendar in Weimar youth-Faded photo on rose wallpaper under a copper roof-In the silent dawn little grey men played in his block house and went away through an invisible door-- Click St. Louis under drifting soot of old newspapers-`Daddy Longlegs' looked like Uncle Sam on stilts and he ran this osteopath clinic outside East St. Louis and took in a few junky patients for two notes a week they could stay on the nod in green lawn chairs and look at the oaks and grass stretching down to a little lake in the sun and the nurse moved around the lawn with her silver trays feeding the junk in-We called her 'Mother'- Wouldn't you?-Doc Benway and me was holed up there after a rumble in Dallas involving this aphrodisiac ointment and Doc goofed on ether and mixed in too much Spanish Fly and burned the prick off the Police Commissioner straight away-So we come tòDaddy Longlegs' to cool off and found him cool and casual in a dark room with potted rubber plants and a silver tray on the table where he liked to see a week in advance-The nurse showed us to a room with rose wallpaper and we had this bell any hour of the day or night ring and the nurse charged in with a loaded hypo-Well one day we were sitting out in the lawn chairs with lap robes it was a fall day trees turning and the sun cold on the lake-Doe picks up a piece of grass-  "Junk turns you on vegetable-It's green, see?-A green fix should last a long time."
We checked out of the clinic and rented a house and Doc starts cooking up this green junk and the basement was full of tanks smelled like a compost heap of junkies-So finally he draws off this heavy green fluid and loads it into a hypo big as a bicycle pump-  "Now we must find a worthy vessel," he said and we flush out this old goof ball artist and told him it was pure Chinese H from The Ling Dynasty and Doc shoots the whole pint of green right into the main line and the Yellow jacket turns fibrous grey green and withered up like an old turnip and I said: "I'm getting out of here, me," and Doc said: "An unworthy vessel obviously-So I have now decided that junk is not green but blue."
So he buys a lot of tubes and globes and they are flickering in the basement this battery of tubes metal vapor and quicksilver and pulsing blue spheres and a smell of ozone and a little high-fi blue note fixed you right to metal this junk note tinkling through your crystals and a heavy blue silence fell klunk-and all the words turned to cold liquid metal and ran off you man just fixed there in a cool blue mist of vaporized bank notes-We found out later that the metal junkies were all radioactive and subject to explode if two of them came into contact At this point in our researches we intersected The Nova Police- ..."   CHINESE LAUNDRY  Chinese Laundry   When young Sutherland asked me to procure him a commission with the nova police, I jokingly answered: "Bring in Winkhorst, technician and chemist for The Lazarus Pharmaceutical Company, and we will discuss the matter."
"Is this Winkhorst a nova criminal?"
"No just a technical sergeant wanted for interrogation."
I was thinking of course that he knew nothing of the methods by which such people are brought in for interrogation -It is a precision operation-First we send out a series of agents-(usually in the guise of journalists )-to contact Winkhorst and expose him to a battery of stimulus units-The contact agents talk and record the response on all levels to the word units while a photographer takes pictures-This material is passed along to The Art Department-Writers write "Winkhorst," painters paint "Winkhorst," a method actor becomes "Winkhorst," and then "Winkhorst" will answer our questions- The processing of Winkhorst was already under way-  Some days later there was a knock at my door- Young Sutherland was standing there and next to him a man with coat collar turned up so only the eyes were visible spitting indignant protest I noticed that the overcoat sleeves were empty.
"I have him in a strait jacket," said Sutherland propelling the man into my room- "This is Winkhorst."
I saw that the collar was turned up to conceal a gag – "But-You misunderstood me- Not on this level-I mean really-"  "You said bring in Winkhorst didn't you?"
I was thinking fast: "All right-Take off the gag and the strait jacket."
"But he'll scream the fuzz in-"  "No he won't."
As he removed the strait jacket I was reminded of an old dream picture-This process is known as retroactive dreaming-Performed with precision and authority becomes accomplished fact If Winkhorst did start screaming no one would hear him-Far side of the world's mirror moving into my past-Wall of glass you know-Winkhorst made no attempt to scream-Iron cool he sat down-I asked Sutherland to leave us promising to put his application through channels-  "I have come to ask settlement for a laundry bill."
Winkhorst said.
"What laundry do you represent?"
"The Chinese laundry."
"The bill will be paid through channels-As you know nothing is more complicated and time consuming than processing requisition orders for so-called 'personal expenses’- And you know also that it is strictly forbidden to offer currency in settlement."
"I was empowered to ask a settlement-Beyond that I know nothing-And now may I ask why I have been summoned?"
"Let's not say summoned-Let us just say invited- It's more humane that way you see-Actually we are taking an opinion poll in regard to someone with whom I believe you have a long and close association, namely Mr. Winkhorst of The Lazarus Pharmaceutical Company -We are interviewing friends, relatives, coworkers to predict his chances for reelection as captain of the chemical executive softball team You must of course realize the importance of this matter in view of the company motto Àlways play soft ball' is it not?- Now just to give the interview life let us pretend that you are yourself Winkhorst and I will put the questions directly ketch?- Very well Mr. Winkhorst, let's not waste time-We know that you are the chemist responsible for synthesizing the new hallucinogen drugs many of which have not yet been released even for experimental purposes-We know also that you have effected certain molecular alterations in the known hallucinogens that are being freely distributed in many quarters-Precisely how are these alterations effected?
-Please do not be deterred from making a complete statement by my obvious lack of technical knowledge -That is not my job-Your answers will be recorded and turned over to the Technical Department for processing."
"The process is known as stress deformation--It is done or was done with a cyclotron-For example the mescaline molecule is exposed to cyclotron stress so that the energy field is deformed and some molecules are activated on fissionable level- Mescaline so processed will be liable to produce, in the human subject- (known as `canine preparations')-uh unpleasant and dangerous symptoms and in particular the heat syndrome ' which is a reflection of nuclear fission-Subjects complain they are on fire, confined in a suffocating furnace, white hot bees swarming in the body-The hot bees are of course the deformed mescaline molecules -I am putting it simply of course-"  "There are other procedures?"
"Of course but always it is a question of deformation or association on a molecular level-Another procedure consists in exposing the mescaline molecule to certain virus cultures-The virus as you know is a very small particle and can be precisely associated on molecular chains-This association gives an additional tune-in with anybody who has suffered from a virus infection such as hepatitis for example-Much easier to produce the heat syndrome in such a preparation."
"Can this process be reversed?
That is can you decontaminate a compound once the deformation has been effected?"
"Not so easy-It would be simpler to recall our stock from the distributors and replace it."
"And now I would like to ask you if there could be benign associations-Could you for example associate mescaline with apomorphine on a molecular level?"
"First we would have to synthesize the apomorphine formulae-As you know it is forbidden to do this."
"And for very good reason is it not, Winkhorst?"
Yes-Apomorphine combats parasite invasion by stimulating the regulatory centers to normalize metabolism -A powerful variation of this drug could deactivate all verbal units and blanket the earth in silence, disconnecting the entire heat syndrome."
"You could do this, Mr.
Winkhorst?"
"It would not be easy-certain technical details and so little time-" He held up his thumb and forefinger a quarter inch apart.
"Difficult but not impossible, Mr.
Winkhorst?"
"Of course not-If I receive the order-This is unlikely in view of certain facts known to both of us."
"You refer to the scheduled nova date?"
"Of course."
"You are convinced that this is inevitable, Mr.
Winkhorst?"
"I have seen the formulae-I do not believe in miracles."
"Of what do these formulae consist, Mr.
Winkhorst?"
"It is a question of disposal-What is known as Uranium and this applies to all such raw material is actually a form of excrement-The disposal problem of radioactive waste in any time universe is ultimately insoluble."
"But if we disintegrate verbal units, that is vaporize the containers, then the explosion could not take place in effect would never have existed-"  "Perhaps-I am a chemist not a prophet-It is considered axiomatic that the nova formulae can not be broken, that the process is irreversible once set in motion -All energy and appropriations is now being channeled into escape plans-If you are interested I am empowered to make an offer of evacuation-on a time level of course."
"And in return?"
"You will simply send back a report that there is no evidence of nova activity on planet earth."
"What you are offering me is a precarious aqualung existence in somebody else's stale movie-Such people made a wide U turn back to the '20s-Besides the whole thing is ridiculous-Like I send back word from Mercury: `The climate is cool and bracing--The natives are soo friendly'-or Òn Uranus one is conscious of a lightness in the limbs and an exhilarating sense of freedom'-So Doctor Benway snapped, `You will simply send back spitting notice on your dirty nova activity-It is ridiculous like when the egg cracks the climate is cool and bracing’-or Ùranus is mushrooming freedom’-This is the old splintered pink carnival 1917-Sad little irrigation ditch-Where else if they have date twisting paralyzed in the blue movies?- You are offering me aqualung scraps-precarious flesh-soiled movie, rag on cock-Intestinal street boy smells through the outhouse.’ "  "I am empowered to make the offer not assess its validity."
"The offer is declined-The so-called officers on this planet have panicked and are rushing the first life boat in drag-Such behavior is unbecoming an officer and these people have been relieved of a command they evidently experienced as an intolerable burden in any case-In.
all my experience as a police officer I have never seen such a downright stupid conspiracy-The nova mob operating here are stumble bums who couldn't even crash our police line-up anywhere else-"  This is the old needling technique to lure a criminal out into the open-Three thousand years with the force and it still works- Winkhorst was fading out in hot spirals of the crab nebula-I experienced a moment of panic-walked slowly to the tape recorder-  "Now if you would be so kind, Mr. Winkhorst, I would like you to listen to this music and give me your reaction-We are using it in a commercial on the apomorphine program-Now if you would listen to this music and give me advantage-We are thinking of sullen street boy for this spot-' I put on some Gnaova drum music and turned around both guns blazing-Silver needles under tons focus come level on average had opened up still as good as he used to be pounding stabbing to the drum beats-The scorpion controller was on screen blue eyes white hot spitting from the molten core of a planet where lead melts at noon, his body half concealed by the portico of a Mayan temple-A stink of torture chambers and burning flesh filled the room- Prisoners staked out under the white hot skies of Minraud eaten alive by metal ants-I kept distance surrounding him with pounding stabbing light blasts seventy tons to the square inch-The orders loud and clear now: "Blast-Pound-Strafe-Stab- Kill"-The screen opened out-I could see Mayan codices and Egyptian hieroglyphs- Prisoners screaming in the ovens broken down to insect forms-Life-sized portrait of a pantless corpse hanged to a telegraph pole ejaculating under a white hot sky-Stink of torture when the egg cracks- always to insect forms-Staked out spines gathering mushroom ants-Eyes pop out naked hanged to a telegraph pole of adolescent image-  The music shifted to Pan Pipes and I moved away to remote mountain villages where blue mist swirled through the slate houses-Place of the vine people under eternal moonlight Pressure removed-Seventy tons to the square inch suddenly moved out From a calm grey distance I saw the scorpion controller explode in the low pressure area-Great winds whipping across a black plain scattered the codices and hieroglyphs to rubbish heaps of the earth-(A Mexican boy whistling Mambo, drops his pants by a mud wall and wipes his ass with a page from the Madrid codex) Place of the dust people who live in sand storms riding the wind-Wind wind wind through dusty offices and archives-Wind through the board rooms and torture banks of time-  ("A great calm shrouds the green place of the vine people.")
Inflexible Authority  When I handed in my report to The District Supervisor he read it through with a narrow smile-"They have distracted you with a war film and given false information as usual-You are inexperienced of course- Totally green troops in the area-However your unauthorized action will enable us to cut some corners- Now come along and we will get the real facts-"  The police patrol pounded into the home office of Lazarus & Co-  "And now Mr. Winkhorst and you gentlemen of the board, let's have the real story and quickly or would you rather talk to the partisans?"
"You dumb hicks."
"The information and quickly-We have no time to waste with such as you."
The D.S.
stood there translucent silver sending a solid blast of inflexible authority.
"All right-We'll talk-The cyclotron processes image -It's the microfilm principle- smaller and smaller, more and more images in less space pounded down under the cyclotron to crystal image meal-We can take the whole fucking planet out that way up our ass in a finger stall-Image of both of us good as he used to be-A stall you dig- Just old showmen packing our ermines you might say-"  "Enough of that show-Continue please with your statement."
"Sure, sure, but you see now why we had to laugh till we pissed watching those dumb rubes playing around with photomontage-Like charging a regiment of tanks with a defective slingshot."
"For the last time out of me-Continue with your statement."
"Sure, sure, but you see now why we had such lookout on these dumb rubes playing around with a splintered carnival-Charging a regiment of tanks with a defective sanitarium 1917-Never could keep his gas -Just an old trouper is all"-(He goes into a song and dance routine dancing off stage-An 1890 cop picks him up in the wings and brings back a ventriloquist dummy.)
"This, gentlemen, is a death dwarf-As you can see manipulated by remote control- Compliments of Mr. & Mrs. D."  "Give me a shot," says the dwarf.
"And I'll tell you something interesting."
Hydraulic metal hands proffer a tray of phosphorescent meal yellow brown in color like pulverized amber -The dwarf takes out a hypo from a silver case and shoots a pinch of the meal in the main line.
"Images-millions of images-That's what I eat- Cyclotron shit-Ever try kicking that habit with apomorphine ?-Now I got all the images of sex acts and torture ever took place anywhere and I can just blast it out and control you gooks right down to the molecule - I got orgasms-I got screams-I got all the images any hick poet ever shit out-My Power's coming -My Power's coming-My Power's coming-" He goes into a faith healer routine rolling his eyes and frothing at the mouth-"And I got millions and millions and millions of images of Me, Me, Me, meee."
(He nods out-He snaps back into focus screaming and spitting at Uranian Willy.)
"You hick-You rat-Called the fuzz on me-All right-(Nods out)-I'm finished but you're still a lousy fink-"  "Address your remarks to me," said the D.S.
"All right you hick sheriffs-I'll cook you all down to decorticated canine preparations- You'll never get the apomorphine formulae in time-Never!
Never!
Never!"
-(Caustic white hot saliva drips from his teeth-A smell of phosphorous fills the room)-"Human dogs"-He collapses sobbing-"Don't mind if I take another shot do you?"
"Of course not-After giving information you will be disintoxicated."
"Disintoxicated he says-My God look at me."
"Good sir to the purpose."
"Shit-Uranian shit-That's what my human dogs eat-And I like to rub their nose in it- Beauty-Poetry-Space-What good is all that to me?
If I don’t get the image fix I'm in the ovens-You understand?-All the pain and hate images come loose-You understand that you dumb hick?
I'm finished but your eyes still pop out-Naked candy of adolescent image Panama-Who look out different?-Cook you all down to decorticated mandrake-"  "Don't you think, Mr. D, it is in your interest to facilitate our work with the apomorphine formulae?"
"It wouldn't touch me-Not with the habit I got-"  "How do you know?-Have you tried?"
"Of course not-If I allowed anyone to develop the formulae he would be out you understand?
And it only takes one out to kick over my hypo tray."
"After all you don't have much choice Mr. D."  Again the image snapped back fading now and flickering like an old film-  "I still have the Board Room Reports-I can split the planet wide open tomorrow-And you, you little rat, you'll end up on ice in the ovens-Baked Alaska we call it-Nothing like a Baked Alaska to hold me vegetable-Always plenty wise guys waiting on the Baked Alaska."
The dwarf's eyes sputtered blue sparks-A reek of burning flesh billowed through the room-  "I still mushroom planet wide open for jolly-Any hick poet shit out pleasures-Come closer and see my pictures-Show you something interesting-Come closer and watch them flop around in soiled linen-The Garden Boys both of us good as we used to be- Sweet pictures start coming in the hanged man knees up to the chin-You know- Beauty bare and still as good- Cock stand up spurting whitewash-Ever try his crotch when the egg cracks?-Now I got all the images in backward time-Rusty black pants- Delicate gooks in the locker room rubbing each other-I got screams-I watched- Burning heavens, idiot-Don't mind if I take another shot Jimmy Sheffield is still as good as he used to be-Flesh the room in pink carnival-"  A young agent turned away vomiting; "Police work is not pleasant on any level," said the D.S.
He turned to Winkhorst: "This special breed spitting notice on your dirty pharmaceuticals-Level—"  "Well some of my information was advantage-It is done with a cyclotron-But like this-Say I want to heat up the mescaline formula what I do is put the blazing photo from Hiroshima and Nagasaki under my cyclotron and shade the heat meal in with mescaline-Indetectible-It's all so simple and magnificent really-Beauty bare and all that-Or say I want `The Drenched Lands' on the boy what I do is put the image from his cock under the cyclotron spurting whitewash in the white hot skies of Minraud."
The death dwarf opens one eye-"Hey, copper, come here-Got something else to tell you-Might as well rat-Everyone does it here the man says-You know about niggers?
Why darkies were born?-Travel flesh we call it-Transports better-Tell you something else-" He nods out.
"And the apomorphine formula, Mr.
Winkhorst?"
"Apomorphine is no word and no image-It is of course misleading to speak of a silence virus or an apomorphine virus since apomorphine is anti-virus-The uh apomorphine preparations must be raised in a culture containing sublethal quantities of pain and pleasure cyclotron concentrates-Sub-virus stimulates antivirus special group-When immunity has been established in the surviving preparations-and many will not survive-we have the formulae necessary to defeat the virus powers-It is simply a question of putting through an inoculation program in the very limited time that remains-Word begets image and image is virus-Our facilities are at your disposal gentlemen and I am at your disposal- Technical sergeant I can work for anybody-These officers don't even know what button to push."
He glares at the dwarf who is on the nod, hands turning to vines-  "I'm not taking any rap for a decorticated turnip- And you just let me tell you how much all the kids in the office and the laboratory hate you stinking heavy metal assed cunt sucking board bastards."
Technical Deposition of the Virus Power.
"Gentlemen, it was first suggested that we take our own image and examine how it could be made more portable.
We found that simple binary coding systems were enough to contain the entire image however they required a large amount of storage space until it was found that the binary information could be written at the molecular level, and our entire image could be contained within a grain of sand.
However it was found that these information molecules were not dead matter but exhibited a capacity for life which is found elsewhere in the form of virus.
Our virus infects the human and creates our image in him.
We first took our image and put it into code.
A technical code developed by the information theorists.
This code was written at the molecular level to save space, when it was found that the image material was not dead matter, but exhibited the same life cycle as the virus.
This virus released upon the world would infect the entire population and turn them into our replicas, it was not safe to release the virus until we could be sure that the last groups to go replica would not notice.
To this end we invented variety in many forms, variety that is of information content in a molecule, which, enfin, is always a permutation of the existing material.
Information speeded up, slowed down, permutated, changed at random by radiating the virus material with high energy rays from cyclotrons, in short we have created an infinity of variety at the information level, sufficient to keep so-called scientists busy for ever exploring the ‘richness of nature.'
"It was important all this time that the possibility of a human ever conceiving of being without a body should not arise.
Remember that the variety we invented was permutation of the electromagnetic structure of matter energy interactions which are not the raw material of nonbody experience.
Note From The Technical Department of Nova Police: Winkhorst's information on the so-called "apomorphine formulae" was incomplete-He did not mention alnorphine-This substance like apomorphine is made from morphine Its action is to block morphine out of the cells-An injection of alnorphine will bring on immediate withdrawal symptoms in an addict It is also a specific in acute morphine poisoning- Doctor Isbell of Lexington states in an article recently published in The British Journal of Addiction that alnorphine is not habit-forming but acts even more effectively as a pain killer than morphine but can not be used because it produces "mental disturbances"-What is pain?-Obviously damage to the image-Junk is concentrated image and this accounts for its pain killing action-Nor could there be pain if there was no image-This may well account for the pain killing action of alnorphine and also for the unspecified "mental disurbances"-So we began our experiments by administering alnorphine in combination with apomorphine.
Coordinate Points  The case I have just related will show you something of our methods and the people with whom we are called upon to deal.
"I doubt if any of you on this copy planet have ever seen a nova criminal-(they take considerable pains to mask their operations) and I am sure none of you have ever seen a nova police officer -When disorder on any planet reaches a certain point the regulating instance scans POLICE - otherwise - SPUT - Another planet bites the cosmic dust - I will now explain something of the mechanisms and techniques of nova which are always deliberately manipulated - I am quite well aware that no one on any planet likes to see a police officer so let me emphasize in passing that the nova police have no intention of remaining after their work is done - That is, when the danger of nova is removed from this planet we will move on to other assignments - We do our work and go-The difference between this department and the parasitic excrescence that often travels under the namèPolice' can be expressed in metabolic terms: The distinction between morphine and apomorphine.
Àpomorphine is made by boiling morphine with hydrochloric acid.
This alters chemical formulae and physiological effects.
Apomorphine has no sedative narcotic or addicting properties.
It is a metabolic regulator that need not be continued when its work is done.
I quote from Anxiety and Its Treatment by Doctor John Dent of London: Àpomorphine acts on the back brain stimulating the regulating centers in such a way as to normalize the metabolism.'
It has been used in the treatment of alcoholics and drug addicts and normalizes metabolism in such a way as to remove the need for any narcotic substance.
Apomorphine cuts drug lines from the brain.
Poison of dead sun fading in smoke-'  The Nova Police can be compared to apomorphine, a regulating instance that need not continue and has no intention of continuing after its work is done.
Any man who is doing a job is working to make himself obsolete and that goes double for police.
Now look at the parasitic police of morphine.
First they create a narcotic problem then they say that a permanent narcotics police is now necessary to deal with the problem of addiction.
Addiction can be controlled by apomorphine and reduced to a minor health problem.
The narcotics police know this and that is why they do not want to see apomorphine used in the treatment of drug addicts:   PLAN DRUG ADDICTION  Now you are asking me whether I want to perpetuate a narcotics problem and I say: "Protect the disease.
Must be made criminal protecting society from the disease."
The problem scheduled in the United States the use of jail, former narcotics plan, addiction and crime for many years-Broad front "Care" of welfare agencies- Narcotics which antedate the use of drugs-The fact is noteworthy-48 stages-prisoner was delayed-has been separated-was required-  Addiction in some form is the basis-must be wholly addicts-Any voluntary capacity subversion of The Will Capital And Treasury Bank-Infection dedicated to traffic in exchange narcotics demonstrated a Typhoid Mary who will spread narcotics problem to the United Kingdom-Finally in view of the cure-cure of the social problem and as such dangerous to society-  Maintaining addict cancers to our profit-pernicious personal contact-Market increase- Release the Prosecutor to try any holes-Cut Up Fighting Drug Addiction by Malcolm Monroe Former Prosecutor, in Western World, October 1959.
As we have seen image is junk-When a patient loses a leg what has been damaged?- Obviously his image of himself-So he needs a shot of cooked down image -The hallucinogen drugs shift the scanning pattern of "reality" so that we see a different "reality"-There is no true or real "reality"- “‘Reality’ is simply a more or less constant scanning pattern – The scanning pattern we accept as ‘reality’ has been imposed by the controlling power on this planet, a power primarily oriented towards total control – In order to retain control they have moved to monopolize and deactivate the hallucinogen drugs by effecting noxious alterations on a molecular level –  The basic nova mechanism is very simple: Always create as many insoluble conflicts as possible and always aggravate existing conflicts-This is done by dumping life forms with incompatible conditions of existence on the same planet-There is of course nothing "wrong" about any given life form since "wrong" only has reference to conflicts with other life forms-The point is these forms should not be on the same planet-Their conditions of life are basically incompatible in present time form and it is precisely the work of the Nova Mob to see that they remain in present time form, to create and aggravate the conflicts that lead to the explosion of a planet that is to nova-At any given time recording devices fix the nature of absolute need and dictate the use of total weapons-Like this: Take two opposed pressure groups-Record the most violent and threatening statements of group one with regard to group two and play back to group two-Record the answer and take to back to group one-Back and forth between opposed pressure groups-This process is known as "feed back"-You can see it operating in any bar room quarrel-In any quarrel for that matter- Manipulated on a global scale feeds back nuclear war and nova-These conflicts are deliberately created and aggravated by nova criminals-The Nova Mob: "Sammy The Butcher," "Green Tony," "Iron Claws," "The Brown Artist," "Jacky Blue Note," "Limestone John," "Izzy The Push," "Hamburger Mary," "Paddy The Sting," "The Subliminal Kid," "The Blue Dinosaur," and "Mr. & Mrs. D," also known as "Mr. Bradly Mr. Martin" also known as "The Ugly Spirit" thought to be the leader of the mob-The Nova Mob-In all my experience as a police officer I have never seen such total fear and degradation on any planet-We intend to arrest these criminals and turn them over to the biological department for the indicated alterations-  Now you may well ask whether we can straighten out this mess to the satisfaction of any life forms involved and my answer is this -Your earth case must be processed by the Biological Courts - (admittedly in a deplorable condition at this time) -No sooner set up than immediately corrupted so that they convene every day in a different location like floating dice games, constantly swept away by stampeding forms all idiotically glorifying their stupid ways of life - most of them quite unworkable of course) - attempting to seduce the judges into Venusian sex practices, drug the court officials, and intimidate the entire audience chamber with the threat of nova – In all my experience as a police officer I have never seen such total fear of the indicated alterations on any planet - a thankless job you see and we only do it so it won't have to be done some place else under even more difficult circumstances –  The success of the nova mob depended on a blockade of the planet that allowed them to operate with impunity - This blockade was broken by partisan activity directed from the planet Saturn that cut the control lines of word and image laid down by the nova mob -So we moved in our agents and started to work keeping always in close touch with partisans - The selection of local personnel posed a most difficult problem - Frankly we found that most existing police agencies were hopelessly corrupt - The nova mob had seen to that - Paradoxically some of our best agents were recruited from the ranks of those who are called criminals on this planet - In many instances we had to use agents inexperienced in police work - These were of course casualties and fuck-ups - You must understand that an undercover agent witnesses the most execrable cruelties while he waits helpless to intervene, sometimes for many years, before he can make a definitive arrest - So it is no wonder that green officers occasionally slip control when they finally do move in for the arrest - This condition, known as àrrest fever,' can upset an entire operation - In one recent case, our man in Tangier suffered an attack of àrrest fever' and detained everyone on his view screen including some of our undercover men - He was transferred to paper work in another area -  Let me explain how we make an arrest - nova criminals are not three-dimensional organisms - (though they are quite definite organisms as we shall see ) - but they need three-dimensional human agents to operate - The point at which the criminal controller intersects a three-dimensional human agent is known as à coordinate point' - And if there is one thing that carries over from one human host to another and established identity of the controller it is habit: idiosyncracies, vices, food preferences - (we were able to trace Hamburger Mary through her fondness for peanut butter) - a gesture , a special look, that is to say the style of the controller - A chain smoker will always operate through chain smokers, an addict through addicts - Now a single controller can operate through thousands of human agents, but he must have a line of coordinate points - Some move on junk lines through addicts of the earth, others move on lines of certain sexual practices and so forth -It is only when we can block the controller out of all coordinate points available to him and flush him out from host cover that we can make a definitive arrest - Otherwise the criminal escapes to other coordinates –  We picked up our first coordinate points in London.
Fade out to a shabby hotel near Earl's Court in London.
One of our agents is posing as a writer.
He has written a so-called pornographic novel called Naked Lunch in which The Orgasm Death Gimmick is described.
That was the bait.
And they walked write in.
A quick knock at the door and there It was.
A green boy/girl from the sewage deltas of Venus.
The colorless vampire creatures from a land of grass without mirrors.
The agent shuddered in a light fever.
"Arrest Fever."
The Green Boy mistook this emotion as a tribute to his personal attractions preened himself and strutted round the room.
This organism is only dangerous when directed by The Insect Brain Of Minraud.
That night the agent sent in his report:  "Controller is woman-Probably Italian-Picked up a villa outside Florence-And a Broker operating in the same area-Concentrate patrols-Contact local partisans -Expect to encounter Venusian weapons-"  In the months that followed we turned up more and more coordinate points.
We put a round-the-clock shadow on The Green Boy and traced all incoming and outgoing calls.
We picked up The Broker's Other Half in Tangier.
A Broker is someone who arranges criminal jobs:  "Get that writer-that scientist-this artist-He is too close-Bribe-Con-Intimidate-Take over his coordinate points-"  And the Broker finds someone to do the job like: "Call Ìzzy The Push,' this is a defenestration bit-Call `Green Tony,' he will fall for the sweet con-As a last resort call `Sammy The Butcher' and warm up The Ovens-This is a special case-"  All Brokers have three-dimensional underworld contacts and rely on The Nova Guards to block shadows and screen their operations.
But when we located The Other Half in Tangier we were able to monitor the calls that went back and forth between them.
At this point we got a real break in the form of a defector from The Nova Mob: Uranian Willy The Heavy Metal Kid.
Now known as "Willy The Fink" to his former associates.
Willy had long been put on the "unreliable " list and marked for "Total Disposal In The Ovens."
But he provided himself with a stash of apomorphine so escaped and contacted our Tangier agent.
Fade out.
Uranian Willy  Uranian Willy The Heavy Metal Kid.
Also known as Willy The Rat.
He wised up the marks.
His metal face moved in a slow smile as he heard the twittering supersonic threats through antennae embedded in his translucent skull.
"Death in The Ovens."
"Death in Centipede."
Trapped in this dead whistle stop, surrounded by The Nova Guard, he still gave himself better than even chance on a crash out.
Electrician in gasoline crack of history.
His brain seared by white hot blasts.
One hope left in the universe; Plan D.  He was not out of The Security Compound by a long way but he had rubbed off the word shackles and sounded the alarm to the shattered male forces of the earth:  THIS IS WAR TO EXTERMINATION.
FIGHT CELL BY CELL THROUGH BODIES AND MIND SCREENS OF THE EARTH.
SOULS ROTTEN FROM THE ORGASM DRUG, FLESH SHUDDERING FROM THE OVENS, PRISONERS OF THE EARTH COME OUT.
STORM THE STUDIO –  Plan D called for Total Exposure.
Wise up all the marks everywhere.
Show them the rigged wheel of Life-Time-Fortune.
Storm The Reality Studio.
And retake the universe.
The Plan shifted and reformed as reports came in from his electric patrols sniffing quivering down streets and mind screens of the earth.
"Area mined-Guards everywhere-Can't quite get through-"  "Order total weapons-Release Silence Virus-"  "Board Books taken-Heavy losses-"  "Photo falling-Word falling-Break Through in Grey Room-Use Partisans of all nations- Towers, open fire-"  The Reality Film giving and buckling like a bulkhead under pressure and the pressure gauge went up and up.
