No.
99  November 1971      Resistance   An apartment I almost lived in looks like an apartment Z. had.
It’s made up of one large living room and two duplex rooms.
But my apartment is square.
I’m there with C. and Lise, and many others.
We’re walking in the street, in the country, we’re running.
It’s during the Occupation.
Germans everywhere.
Sleepless night in a farm taken over by the underground.
Scenes from the resistance.
Later, nothing but the evocation of these memories.
There is an interviewer, like in The Sorrow and the Pity, which someone calls “The Sorrow and the Service,” which, I don’t know why, makes me think of a pun:   “What’s the matter, Victor?
You look lost!”   / /      No.
100  December 1971      Finland   I finished my military service in a large citadel in the suburb of Malakoff.
It was an immense fortress surrounded by an enormous network of roads.
On the way back from leave, I drive around it in a car.
Here and there from the road you can see the huge towers of the fortress pop up, with innumerable concrete stairways leading up to it.
A change of posting brings me across the citadel to look for the health services office.
It’s on the twelfth floor of one of those towers.
It takes me a long time to find the right one.
I get into an elevator: it’s a horizontal platform that slides at high speed along four dangerously slick walls.
You have to avoid coming into contact with these walls (a vaguely upsetting feeling).
On the twelfth floor there is no health services office, but an immense drugstore, whose aisles are the size of streets.
Thus I arrive at a sort of impasse.
At the end is (maybe) health services (it’s a hospital, or an infirmary, or maybe even a bank).
On the right there’s a small hotel, the “FINLAND” hotel, according to a neon sign out front.
I go into this “FINLAND” hotel and head for the bar.
I notice right away that there is no Christmas tree.
Deeply moved, almost in tears, I explain that there will be no Christmas party this year.
/ /      No.
101  January 1972      Disorder   All at once I realized there were damp stains on my living room carpet.
Maybe it’s the cat.
I pat and sniff: nothing.
But there’s a lot of it, everywhere.
I walked into my kitchen: it was an unbelievable mess.
It seems like a large section of the (blue) wall has come off, but it’s only a plastic trash bag in a corner over the sink.
I decided to clean up and, first of all, to change.
I tried, with no luck, to get into a pair of brown corduroy pants that are obviously too small for me: they clearly belong to .
and I’m surprised she didn’t take them with her.
No.
102  January 1972      Towers    1     Near La Rochelle, where I’ve just spent a few days with a woman I didn’t know very well.
She is driving.
She keeps getting lost, trying to get back to the large tower that stands in the center of town.
2     We can also see the tower on the horizon, straight up ahead.
We go in that direction.
The road is straight.
We pass several statues and monuments: the statue of Liberty, large buildings with apartments like cells in a beehive.
At last, I am seeing real examples of the contemporary architecture I’d only encountered in books!
These are only housing projects, barely finished and already old …      3     We get to the station running very late.
We walk past the ticket window without paying.
We get onto a train (where are our bags?
what did we do with the car?)
There are no seats.
The train is packed.
Our itinerary, it seems, joins up directly with the métro, or with a circle railway.
It seems like we’re being negligent, that we should take advantage of such correspondences more often …      4     Crossing?
Tunnel?
5     In Paris, we look for a taxi.
We have to cross a vast esplanade where the fascist “New Order” movement has organized an automobile gymkhana.
Seems to me we’re not far from the Bois de Vincennes …      No.
103  January 1972      The tomb   Time: around Christmas  Place: around Paris      1     slipping and sliding on kilometers of stonework with big protruding pebbles (puddingstone)      2     the kit (for repairs): it contains a “cutter,” a pastry punch, a hammer, a suitcase handle missing its screws …      3     the pun is a bear to get my bearings: a glass of bear!
4     In the distance, the towers from last night’s dream      5     We come to a town: Versailles.
6     Grotesque, police force, parade.
7     We are caught, in spite of ourselves, in the parade; it’s led by a drum major, an old flabby Belgian clown (Valentin the Boneless).
8     Finally we get to the cemetery.
Commotion.
I find myself in front of a tomb where distant relatives of one of us (there are three of us, with shifting identities) are laid.
I bend over the grave.
There are portraits encrusted in the stone; one is of a Eurasian woman whom I recognize as Madame Vidal-Naquet, a famous psychiatrist of her time.
I feel tears rising to my eyes, and soon I am weeping abundantly.
No.
104  February 1972      A dream by P.:    The third person     I am standing on a hotel balcony (overlooking the sea?
the Seine?
the road?).
A couple comes up.
The woman asks for the phone book; she specifies that it’s white—maybe it’s the most recent edition—and that, since she knows it, she’ll have an easier time finding what she’s looking for.
A woman who was standing next to me (the hotel manager?)
gives it to her: it’s actually several unbound volumes that aren’t white.
Later, a whole section of the same balcony is occupied by diners.
I am at a table with several people.
At the next table is the woman from earlier (it wasn’t the hotel manager, just a guest like the others) with her husband: Mr. and Mrs. Cruel.
Mrs. Cruel still has the phone book.
I want to check something in it; I ask for the volume corresponding to the letter of the name in question, she seems to refuse; I explain to her what I want, and finally she gives it to me and I take it with a knowing look.
I flip through the “phone book,” which turns out to be a sort of Cruel family album.
The frontispiece for a chapter in the middle of the book is a photo of the Cruels’ son.
He is in the middle of a group of three: on the left, his father, who looks exactly like him, and who is a sort of cruel-looking Sami Frey, very brown, black eyes, thirty years old.
The child must be about twelve; he seems kinder, blonder, his eyes are bluer.
Suddenly I realize the photo is animated: the eyes are moving, the father’s look is extremely mean and filled with rage, and the son’s eyes are moving as well.
I am amazed by this effect.
I turn the pages and I come to another animated photo: a corner of a room in which you see the corner of the bed and the curve of a large bowl decorated with characters, which I recognize as the Cruels’ Roman bath.
The child—he is eight—is crossing through the space toward a door on the left side, half open onto darkness, which I know is the bathroom (I’m surprised the Cruels don’t use the Roman bath for the children, which seems perfectly suited to just that use).
Later, another dream.
Upon waking up, I remember the dream with the phone book and realize I do not know who the 3rd person in the first photo is—I don’t think it was the mother.
No.
105  February 1972      The condemnation   At Jean Duvignaud’s request, I set up a mailing list for people he wants to send offprint publications to.
P. and I are going away for the weekend to a fancy hotel, maybe the Ritz.
We’ve booked two large apartments (or suites).
We’ve brought so many bags (suitcases and hatboxes) that the busboys have to make two trips to bring everything up in the elevator.
In the elevator.
It’s a huge elevator, as big as a bedroom.
We are preemptively happy, almost smug, about our luxurious weekend.
In P.’s room.
A huge room, some of which is taken up by a bar.
A reception is going full steam there.
A small child is shoveling huge spoonfuls of chili con carne into his mouth.
I go down to the restaurant.
P. is sitting at another table, looking very pretty.
J.L.
is sitting not far from me.
At one point, he leads me to a corner of the room and begins talking to me about an imminent landing in Cuba.
I interrupt: he’s talking too much.
The room is full of spies.
This is when an old woman, a witch, stands up, points at me, and shouts something like:  “We will be saved but he must die!”  At first I’m frightened, as though this threat is going to be realized on the spot, but then I comfort myself, convinced that it’s an abstract threat, a metaphysical certainty not yet defined in time.
However, I have been hoisted onto a sort of pedestal and people have begun worshipping me, which is to say licking my feet.
I have barely become accustomed to this ritual when I realize they’re actually trying to assassinate me by knocking me from the top of my pedestal.
I end up falling, but I manage to hang on to the bumps on the wall (which is still dangerously slick) and I land uninjured on the floor.
From way up high, people are bombarding me with enormous boulders, but none hits me.
I have fled into the high grass; I have met up with a horde and we have wandered for several years, several centuries, following animal tracks (maybe I knew how to find the passage about animals in the book?).
After long centuries of wandering, we come back to the regions we fled.
On the steppe, a city has been built.
It is called Texas.
We see firearms for the first time …   Texas is a new city, made of wooden houses.
Mostly saloons.
The town hall, where a meeting is about to be held, is in a back room between two saloons.
This arrangement is rather surprising at first, but you realize quickly that it’s actually quite clever.
No.
106  February 1972      La Bibliothèque nationale   I’m working in the large reading room at the library.
Alain G. comes and sits down at a table next to mine.
No.
107  February 1972      At the Kuntz restaurant   I am at the Kuntz restaurant.
I call over an old man with white hair (a sort of maître d’) and a young waiter who—blocking the passage of another, older waiter who has to go to miraculous lengths not to spill anything while serving the neighboring table—brings me a text that I finally identify as a pastiche of “la fabrique du pré” (not exactly a pastiche, nor a copy, more of a text for which “la fabrique du pré” is the source text).
Next to us, there is a box of “After Eight” chocolates.
No.
108  February 1972      The play   … and perhaps the play has already begun and, after a little while, I realize (or remember) that I’ve gone to the suburbs to see it, that I know the actors and the director personally and that, to put it on, the producers might have found money to borrow—maybe 20,000 francs—in Dampierre.
The main character is a Byron who wants to be a Malatesta, which is to say a warlord who crushes his vassals under the pretext of bravery.
In one act, I am an actor: I am to shut off all the lights of a large house and I know that at the death of the lights something terrible will happen.
This expectation triggers a light panic in me.
But nothing happens.
Later, I’m laid out on a bed with a woman whom I eventually (surprised and stunned as though I had long dreamed of this impossible encounter) recognize as C. We are both overcome with an indescribable pleasure (even the word “ecstasy” gives only a distant, impoverished sense of it).
I am on my back.
C. mounts me, but she makes a quick movement that jolts me out of her.
She begins to moan softly, which quickly excites me again.
She kneels and, while she props herself up from behind, I enter her again.
Coupled this way, we begin to creep on the carpet.
In the next room there are two men (one of them is F.).
They see us, but it doesn’t bother us.
It’s part of the play.
The next act takes place in the country.
The heroine has become an ugly old woman.
She is raising a bull, which we see escaping some kind of ditch.
It doesn’t seem real.
One character remarks that it would take only a slightly wild cat to take it down.
I have a long discussion with the man seated next to me, which ends up irritating me.
He thinks the show is good because it demonstrates that the lord is a bastard, and this is what theater must demonstrate until there are no lords left.
I don’t know how to respond.
I think the show is awful, but that doesn’t mean the man next to me isn’t right, which makes me more and more uncomfortable.
Between each act, the characters come on stage, wearing outlandish hats.
I remark to P. that, the larger the hats, the longer the actors strut about in them, a typical example of directorial demagogy.
The last act is a celebration.
Everyone in the audience is invited to come on stage and follow a circuit lined with different attractions (including a game of ping pong).
At the exit, they pass in front of a buffet where they are served a cup of coffee, black, no sugar.
After the performance, I called on the director and his wife (who was one of the actresses).
I tried to make it clear that I didn’t care for the play.
The director came back with a sheaf of papers; it was in these texts, he told me, that he found it was permissible to mix Byron and Malatesta.
I flip through the papers.
Among them, I find a “Trois Suisses” leaflet advertising three leather telephone cradles.
I was looking for exactly such furnishings, and they seem to cost much less than expected; meanwhile, the director, his wife and a third person are indeed seated (having removed their shoes) in such furnishings.
I wake up.
Or I dream that I wake up.
Much later, it seems—another day—I am in the suburbs with friends of recent minting, with P. and one of my friends, maybe R.   I begin to recount my dream to them.
Everything is perfectly clear.
I write it down, bit by bit, on slips of paper that I take from my pocket.
I begin the story of my dream backwards, with the part about the telephone cradles.
We leave.
Fruitless search for a taxi, somewhere by a port of Paris …   P., exhausted, has fallen into a sort of landfill filled with yellowish mud, where she stays, facing the ground, motionless.
Half laughing, half worried, I call to her, shouting her name:  “Lise!
Lise!”  I realize that I have made a mistake and I call her again, correctly rectifying her name.
Very angry, P. stands up and says to me:   “If you want me to feed you, give me the name I gave to my mother because she fed me!”   I realize that we’re hungry.
I search in my pockets and bring out—joy!—thin slices of Chester cheese: the same slices I thought I was writing my dream on.
No.
109  March 1972      Dives   Two of my plays are being performed “urgently.”  The older one isn’t going too badly, but the new one!
All of my actors forget their lines.
We have to stop the run.
Irritation.
Very elderly people pop up like shadows and begin to applaud.
Is it because they think it’s over, or because they’ve just arrived?
We run this new play again, but this time to music.
A musician is directing the performance with the help of a “mixer” and is doing an excellent job of it.
All of this might be happening in Dampierre.
Conversation on a lawn.
One participant is wearing camouflage fatigue pants.
We share a common memory (between us and anyone who has jumped in a parachute): the difficulty of jumping with a hatchet at one’s belt.
Many accidents.
The game goes on and on   Someone I was with leaves   I no longer know where I am, where I’m going   Furious, I go to the hotel office and demand—in French—that I be shown my room.
The customs officer understands and speaks French: she will show me the way.
I get lost in a maze of tiny staircases.
It turns out I’m in a brothel.
Three obese, cheerful women attack me in one of the rooms I explore while looking for my own.
I run away.
Another woman chases me (this isn’t so bad, actually).
No.
110  March 1972      My shoes   Did I lose my shoes?
How did I lose my shoes?
It was at a large carnival: you could take a spin in the air by mooring to the end of a rope attached to a ball and chain, or to balloons—the classic gag where the balloon salesman is carried away by his balloons.
The trip ended on a very high platform.
To get back to ground level, you could—this was one of the most popular attractions at the carnival—slide through a huge fabric tunnel (like an enormous sleeve filled with folds, like a gigantic spindly intestine): they told me it was very impressive and absolutely safe.
It was quite agreeable, in fact (freefall, but totally safe) and, indeed, perfectly harmless.
Leaving this apparatus, very satisfied, I went to sit down on a bench.
It was then that I noticed I had lost my shoes.
I call the employee responsible for the bottom and ask him to go check if my shoes haven’t wound up at the bottom of the apparatus.
He tells me this is not possible.
I insist, adding that these are lace-up boots, nearly new (someone just gave them to me), easily recognizable.
But the employee continues to swear this never happens, could never happen.
I have to insist for a long time before he decides to go look.
Several times he comes back carrying shoes that are obviously not mine.
Finally he finds one, then the other.
A detail I had not yet spotted: at the tips of my soles there are two little metallic pegs that allow the boots to be instantly adapted to ice skates.
No.
111  March 1972 (Blevy)      Reconstruction of a choice   (whose very title indicates the degree to which everything is erased.
It concerned a whole series of selections: which side to sleep on, which ear to choose, which lamp to light?)
After a confusing interval, this becomes:   the path of the father or the path of the mother?
No.
112  March 1972 (Blevy)      Books   In the coatroom of my laboratory there is a small window that looks out onto the back of a used bookstore.
Leaning out this window, I see a whole pile of books presented such that they look like a single work encased in cardboard with a large black stain on the spine.
The books form a set, which looks homogenous to me.
The theme is a contemporary school with a medieval name—the Gay Sçavoir or the Saincte Sapience—which name is written in delicate calligraphy in black pencil.
Scattered in this pile are some large Derrida books, an art book (maybe Claude Roy) and some thin pamphlets.
I know the whole thing belongs to the collection of a friend of J.P., and it strikes me that these are exactly the books I’ve been searching for for a long time.
The bookseller’s price is extremely modest, given the value and rarity of the titles, but I can’t quite make it out (29 francs?
37 francs?).
I would obviously go see the bookseller to make a deal, but of course the store is closed.
The cigarette I was smoking falls into the store and I am quite anxious (not so much out of fear that the butt will set the box of books on fire, more for the disturbing feeling of leaving a sign of my indiscretion) until I realize the butt has fallen onto a marble plaque on the parquet floor, on which there is already one butt, even several butts.
Later.
The morning.
I get a phone call from J.P.
He asks if I’m interested in a stack of books he doesn’t want, because a large black stain on the case is a blemish in his library.
I tell him I saw them and am planning to buy them.
Then he retracts his offer and tells me that, despite the stain, he’s keeping them for himself.
I am furious.
Why would he offer them to me if only to change his mind a moment later?
No.
113  April 1972      The report   I have an extremely important task to finish, and, to do it, I’ve set up at P.’s.
I’ve used the big table to spread out all the papers I need to write a large report I have to hand in the next morning.
Actually, I’m not working.
There are lots of other people at P.’s too and working would be difficult.
At one point, I take a walk with C.F., whom I haven’t seen in a long time.
I kiss her behind the ear.
She asks me whether she should interpret that gesture as meaning that we have “come together.” I deny the thought immediately and explain to her the changes that have taken place in my life.
We walk into a medieval courtyard.
At the foot of a cathedral stands a Gothic construction, recognizable by its flying buttresses and lancet arch windows.
I point out a window to her, saying I live there.
She answers:  “But that’s at least the fifth floor!”  “No,” I say, “it’s the ground floor.” But, even as I say these words, I feel deeply troubled, since, indeed, from the outside, it’s indisputably much higher than the ground floor.
I have returned to P.’s and gone to sleep, even though lots of people are still coming and going in the apartment.
I tell myself I’ll have time, if I get up in the middle of the night, to finish my report for tomorrow.
After all, this isn’t the first time I’ve done this; on the contrary, I’m quite used to doing it.
I take stock of everything I have to write.
This report is about a product (something like “Perspirex” or “Respirex,” it seems to me that, give or take a letter, it has the name of a product that actually exists) that has been tested on a cruise.
I’ve made a list of everything I need to say.
At some moments, it seems like I’m almost done, that nothing will get in my way; at others, I realize with despair that I haven’t even finished with the second point on my list (of more than a hundred).
It was Patrice who assigned me this task.
At some other point, I had gone down to call him and promised him my report the next day at 9 p.m. That’s already much later than the time we had initially agreed on.
Patrice accepted (in all projects like this, it’s a given that they’ll be done at the last minute and they’re programmed accordingly), but it’s getting less and less likely that I’ll make it in time …      No.
114  April 1972      The puzzle    1  The puzzle     Along with a poorly identified person (maybe my aunt), I am visiting a sort of colonial trading post.
At the very back of one room, we come upon a gigantic puzzle laid on a long, slightly inclined table.
From far away, it looks like there is a nearly completed puzzle in the center—it’s of a Renaissance painting, with very bright and glossy colors—with other objects all around it.
Close up, though, you realize the whole thing is a puzzle: the puzzle itself (the painting) is but a fragment of a larger puzzle, unfinished because it can’t be finished; the distinguishing feature of the puzzle is that it’s made up of volumes (cubes, roughly, or more precisely irregular polyhedra) whose faces can be combined at will: each face of cube A can be combined with each face of cube B, and not just two by two, as in children’s (cube) games.
Thus there are, if not an infinite number, at least an extremely large number of possible combinations.
The painting is only one of them; the fragments surrounding the painting are sketches, drafts, outlines of other puzzles.
As proof, somehow, of this nearly limitless permutation, I take a piece from the side of one of the fragments (which are, I forgot to say, like the puzzle, not square or regular like most puzzles, but somehow “sideless,” without a rectilinear border) and turn it over for a few moments, then replace it at the side of another fragment, where it fits immediately.
We go into another room, where we run into my niece Sylvia.
It seems to me something very violent happens then (perhaps we break something?)
2  Felice’s letters     (it seems that) I have in my possession the catalogue of first editions of Kafka’s letters to Felice.
There are several editions, ranging from the most prestigious for 056 francs (the 0 must be a printing error) to the most common, which are numbered all the same, for 12 francs.
It’s one of the latter that I plan to order.
It seems that’s not so easy to do, but at least, I think, almost happily, when I’ve received the book it will no doubt contain a card that legally entitles me to order all the other original editions: I will be kept up to date on the most recent releases.
3  The three cats     After a long trip, maybe, I return to Blevy (or is it Dampierre?).
My whole family is there.
My cat is sleeping in a corner of the room.
I am quite surprised to see a second cat (much smaller and striped) in another corner of the room.
I go to sit and I step on a third cat; this one is much larger.
I don’t believe that this third cat really exists—come now, that’s impossible!—but it jumps up and scratches my face.
No.
115  April 1972      A general history of transportation (excerpt)    1     It is not difficult to imagine a particularly exhilarating parking system: a giant spiral buried underground, whose slope has been so well calculated that it requires no more effort to go up than it does to go down with, in either case, a uniformly accelerating speed.
The only condition is that there can never be more than one car at a time on the spiral: when there are two, one going up and the other going down, they are powerless but to run into each other, with disastrous consequences.
The employees who operate the tollbooths, one down below and the other up top, the exit and entrance of the vehicles, thus have a grave responsibility, but, since they’re in cahoots, they can cause accidents easily: what better way to combine the perfect crimes?
The spiral is made not of concrete but of very hard steel; its end is shaped like a screw: the energy generated by the vehicles traveling on it causes it to turn and it buries itself progressively (extremely slowly, but with virtually no cost) in the ground (a particularly hard rock that cannot be otherwise penetrated): this is how the foundations of gigantic buildings are dug out, with the assumption that there are several screws, which is to say several parking lots.
2     It’s fairly easy to go from the above to a project for a General History of Transportation, automobiles in particular.
The director of the project is Alain Trutat, who was particularly enthusiastic when I suggested that we do a report on one of the least understood points—and yet one of the most important in this story: the hispanification (or more precisely the castillation, or castillification, or castillinization) of the Gascony concurrent to the rise to power of Catherine of Medici: even today, Gascon mentality, morals, and customs are completely incomprehensible if you forget that, for several decades, Gascony was purely and simply a colony, a protectorate, an appendage of Catalonia.
I begin my report in a relatively banal classroom, before a scattered audience.
Quickly I realize I haven’t prepared enough and, worse, I can no longer get my listeners to understand the simple relationship between the history of the automobile and the history of Spain.
It’s going down the tubes.
A total flop.
I’m stammering.
Alain Trutat leaves the room.
To help create a diversion, someone suggests that we make music.
A multi-instrument orchestra is established.
I go out to take a walk.
Maybe I want to find Trutat?
I walk in a large French-style park covered in snow.
I return to the room.
A second orchestra has been formed under the direction of R.K., who seems to be the only competent musician in the group and who has taken matters in hand with great authority and, for that matter, efficacy.
I want to play the flute, but I notice as I’m taking it up that I’ve broken the tip: I was holding the flute in one hand, and in the other a kind of rosary made of three long olive stones, white and maybe wooden, which was supposed to constitute the mouthpiece of the flute.
A bit later, someone maybe hands me a clarinet.
3     / /      No.
116  May 1972      The monkey   After various twists and turns, I find myself sharing an apartment with a stranger.
One of the oddities of this apartment is that it has a huge entrance-hall—much larger, in fact, than the other rooms, including the bedrooms.
Maybe the shared entrance causes the first problem.
In any case, I’ve written a score and this stranger, who says he is a musician, has offered to play it.
But I suspect he actually intends to steal it.
Perhaps to apologize for this tactlessness, he introduces me to Adolf Hitler.
Adolf Hitler is a grotesque clown, with pale skin and long hair: he is played emphatically and exaggeratedly, and at first ridicules his aide-de-camp, General Hartmann, a good old fat ruddy-nosed German who is obviously drunk: he can’t find the right key on his keychain, and is trying desperately to put his outfit in order—shirt and suspenders untucked, shako on his ear—to present himself before his Führer.
Hitler begins by sweetly saying many nice things about Mariani.
But bit by bit, as his speech continues, it gets increasingly pernicious and concludes as a torrent of foul curses.
Adolf Hitler’s eminence grise is a monkey; it has a very long tail that ends in a hand (in a black glove?)
and does not stop playing with itself (exactly like Marsupilami from the Spirou cartoons) to accompany and underscore its master’s speech.
But I think at one point it loses its glove, or its whole hand.
Sudden change of scenery.
Deathly silence.
On a vast esplanade, a crowd of soldiers dressed in black is pushing everyone back while the monkey, at once terrible and grotesque, advances through the middle of the grand plaza.
He is sitting on a little chariot (the carriage of a cannon), tail pointing in front of him like a tank cannon.
A child is running.
One of the soldiers turns around quickly as the child passes and knocks him down with his rifle butt.
I am at a demonstration.
We are singing “La Jeune Garde.” The song fades out slowly.
The silence is oppressive.
I sense the police just in front of us and know they are going to charge.
I know this is only a scene from Duck, You Sucker!, but still, why on earth do I always get myself into these situations?
I managed to take refuge in a building under construction.
I’m hidden in a little square room without a door (I had to enter through the ceiling).
This is where the toilets will be; the plumbing is not yet installed, but there are already footprints in the cement.
No.
117  May 1972      The joint    1     Large demonstration for le Joint Français.
Threat of clashes between the demonstrators and the police.
I almost panic at the idea of being arrested, brought to a police station and beaten.
These things do not happen.
2     (forgotten)      3     (forgotten)      No.
118  June 1972      The double party   I’m visiting a house with the bartender from a bar I go to often.
There is a glass wall, which is trembling.
The bartender explains: it’s because it’s in contact with the metallic posts of the awning.
There is a clogged sink.
To unclog it, you first have to fill another: thanks to some sort of system of communicating vases, the flow of the normal sink will enable the flow of the clogged sink.
There is a large party at my parents’ house.
I’m sitting on a couch between P. and a young woman with whom I am flirting.
P. gets up angrily; I don’t understand why.
I make a date with the young woman for 11:30 p.m.
I take a train.
I cross a city.
Somewhere, an incline in the sidewalk is replaced by a moving walkway.
I get to Dampierre, where there is a big party.
Almost everyone who was at the party at my parents’ house has come.
I meet my aunt, who is with Z.; Z. looks like another one of my aunts and has the same voice as her (a disagreeable voice); she says to me:  “There’s a concert in the garden.”   At the dinner table.
P. is across from me; she’s been drinking heavily.
I didn’t tell the young lady where we would meet.
I cross the property.
Many things have changed.
I have a hard time recognizing the old basements, which have become large vaulted rooms; I meet people whom I have seen before in the same place, a woman, in particular, who may have been my mistress; she gives me an enigmatic smile that seems to signify that our relationship is quite finished.
I can’t get over how unpleasant Z.’s voice has become to me.
A large lunch is served on a huge esplanade looking down on the entrance to the property.
The people arriving down below look like ants; sometimes they actually are ants: someone sweeps the path to keep them from entering.
The young woman comes to meet me; she’s wearing a hat that is a sort of turban topped with a tiny umbrella; I am pleased that she knew she was supposed to meet me here.
No.
119  June 1972      Rue de l’Assomption   I have rented an apartment at 10 or 12 rue de l’Assomption, beneath where Jo A. lives on the second floor.
I’m getting ready to repaint it.
I go to buy groceries on rue Fontaine, but I can’t find good cheese.
I would have liked to find a very dry goat cheese.
I come back.
J. has come to help me paint.
But neither she nor P. wants to go back out to look for cheese.
I go down myself, furious, but my anger subsides once I get to the street.
I pass in front of the house where I lived between my tenth and twentieth years, in front of the Lycée Molière.
What a shame, I think, that this isn’t my month to describe this street!
There have been major changes on the street: just after the butcher shop at no.
52, a cinema—no, that one I remember I know, but a second cinema, brand new, and even a third, where they’re playing a movie about auto racing starring Maximilien SHELL (the name in big letters) and Trintignant (but no “Jean-Louis” and the name very small).
I go into a cheese shop on avenue Mozart.
The cheeses look like fat slices of brain.
Many entanglements.
No goat cheese.
It takes ages to get served.
I buy a single (fairly small) piece of cheese.
It costs 8 francs 70.
That’s highway robbery!
Moreover, it takes ages to pay too: the merchant makes a long series of little signals to the clerk, who passes them on to the cashier.
The cashier asks me for 8 francs 65.
I go back to pick up my parcel.
The merchant initially gives me a lovely one, large and beautifully wrapped, then changes his mind, because that one’s not mine; but he can’t find mine.
He looks for another bit of cheese to give me, but the only pieces he can find are rotten.
Meanwhile, he has begun make—extremely slowly—a Tunisian delicacy: making it the traditional way is an art unto itself; the gherkins are cut lengthwise in extremely fine slices, the different sizes applied just so.
A conversation about Tunisia starts up among the clients.
Someone asks me if the climate is good for sinus infections.
No, I say, it’s too humid.
(but) Marcel C. goes there to take care of his rheumatism.
He goes to Djerba.
He has friends there, which lets him get away from the tourist frenzy that, as they say, rules the Island.
To get back to rue de l’Assomption, I will take the other half of the rectangular perimeter formed by      No.
120  June 1972      Hypotheses   … was I rolling along at a good clip, backward, on the road that was supposed to lead us to the highway?
It was a large road, more reminiscent of an esplanade, and crisscrossed in all directions by vehicles bearing down at full speed …   There were four of us in a rented car, P., J., a strong tall Englishman we didn’t know, and me.
The Englishman was driving.
We were going to join the front, to go fight …   “No, that was in a Truffaut film …”   Near Auxerre, we reach the highway.
We can see it in front of us, beyond a wide gate: it’s a wide, straight road that an uninterrupted tide of whirring cars is crossing from right to left.
For the moment, we’re in some sort of drugstore; we don’t have time to stop to eat.
