They pretend to have priority, like one of them has been stricken, so that the doctor has to look after them first.
The doctor has to clear a path through the girls.
A bit later, in a crowd of girls splayed out, sick, the dreamer picks up a piece of earth (and not a piece of trash or of feces) from the ground.
And he discovers, behind a door, his friend J., laid flat, dead, turned into earth, turned into a block of earth that is missing the piece the dreamer just picked up.
No.
29  November 1970      London   I am in a foreign city.
It’s London, an outlying neighborhood, far from Waterloo or Victoria.
I’m in a group of tourists wandering around a large drugstore.
We meet another group, whom I’m supposed to know.
Indeed, everyone seems familiar, looks like or could look like someone I know.
I’m quite embarrassed.
I offer a lot of vague smiles.
In any case, it’s clear that one of my old friends, Jacques M., is in the second group.
He has grown a beard.
There are also friends of his, whose last name is Fried.
On the other hand, Jacques’s wife, Marianne, is in my group.
I realize then that Jacques and Marianne are separated.
The next morning, I run into Marianne and tell her that Jacques is there.
She heads toward him, then suddenly veers off.
I follow her.
We pass in front of a group of girls.
One of them recoils in horror at my approach.
No.
30  November 1970      GABA   My boss pays me 82 francs (3 × 16) instead of 45 (3 × 15) for having served for three days as a fake subject in his experiment.
I propose that he put the money into a slush fund, but he shakes his head no.
He asks where my file is.
I think of GABA (gamma hydroxybutyric acid), then of presynaptic excitation, which is—evidently—synaptic excitation, and of presynaptic inhibition.
(long feeling of strangeness upon waking)      No.
31  November 1970      The group   of what may have been a large countryside party, an opera full of twists and turns, there remains the image—static, almost petrified, insidiously upsetting—of a group: Four characters à la Watteau, two men, a woman, a man…….…      No.
32  November 1970      An evening at the theater   I was, with Z., at a public event that Aragon and Elsa Triolet were also attending.
Elsa Triolet, a small and gentle woman, waved to me, which surprised me because we don’t know one another.
Later.
We are at the theater.
I am packed in right near the stage, just above the illuminated walkway.
At one point one of the actors, who had been sitting with his back to the audience, rises and begins to count off time like a conductor.
We hear music from backstage.
First it’s just a harpsichord, then a whole orchestra.
A character on the right begins to sing.
It’s the end of the play.
I am overwhelmed, even as I realize there’s nothing to it and wonder vaguely why I appear to be the only one at all moved.
The exit of the theater is mobbed.
I am with Z. at the top of the stairs.
Elsa Triolet walks by below, toward another exit perpendicular to ours.
Once again she tilts her head toward me.
I tell Z.: “That’s Elsa Triolet.” Z. asks how small I was when I met her and tells me she’s going to introduce me to someone who knew me even smaller.
But all of this is said in such a way that I can’t tell whether we’re talking about a woman or a man, and whether she really means “even smaller than I am.”   We go home.
My uncle, a bald man, is following us.
I recognize him as Z.’s current lover.
Walking in front of my uncle and somehow losing him, Z. brings me into a little dormitory, a dark room I identify as one of the annexes of the house in Dampierre.
We tumble down onto a bed.
Z. presses against me, panting slightly, but I sense that she plans to rejoin my uncle and wants me to stay here.
All told, she doesn’t seem entirely sure what she’s going to do.
In any case, I tell her, I don’t feel like sleeping anywhere besides my room.
No.
33  November 1970      The esplanade   A cluster of cops in capes gathers on a large esplanade; not riot police, but rather policemen marking the perimeter for a celebrity to pass through.
I find myself surrounded by cops.
I am naked, or only in my underwear, but the cops seem to find this normal.
At one point, I run.
I make it to a car with J. standing nearby.
My clothes are on the ground, in the mud, filthy.
I find a sock, but I can’t put it on.
We want to take the car (so I can change inside).
In front, in the driver’s seat, there is an enormous turd; we wipe it away with a curtain.
Later, J. and I are driving.
We are circling a movie theater.
A huge animated advertisement announces an erotic film: two neon silhouettes, a man and a woman, in all sorts of positions (implying permutation and recurrence): man and woman on their backs, man on woman, woman on man, man and woman face down, etc.
No.
34  November 1970      The double apartment   There are many double houses and apartments, i.e.
where two families live, separated by a common room.
The L. family and P. and I share one.
Marianne M. comes to see us.
We go to meet her downstairs; she comes up in the elevator with a stranger who she tells me is her husband, but it’s no use trying to recognize him: I don’t.
A small bathroom: the toilet bowl is full of shit.
I’m surprised, and a little relieved, that it doesn’t smell bad.
While closing the lid, I get a bit of shit on my thumb.
J. points me toward the sink.
I have to rub for a long time before the stain goes away, then suddenly my hand turns black.
A small station, maybe in England.
P. and I have been here several times.
There is an open-air newspaper kiosk.
P. takes a newspaper and forgets to pay for it.
No.
35  December 1970      At the café    1     M.K.
is visiting my apartment.
She brings a glass of water from the shower to the kitchen and pours it on a black coffee table.
The water spreads out without spilling over, making the surface of the table shine like an instant oil slick.
2     Dampierre.
The guests are gathering in the dining room.
Z. comes down, looking stunningly pretty.
I lead her into a small room, narrow as a passageway.
I tell her I’m going to leave her.
She says:  “I’m still going to give you a”  (the noun escapes me: tribute, diploma, secret, tablet).
She places a necklace around my neck.
3     I am in a bed with P. We’re actually in a café, with a fairly large number of people, but nobody is surprised to see us in bed, nor are we bothered by it.
Still, I tell myself, it’s curious to make love in a café; even if we furl ourselves in the sheets as much as we can, you can still see the movement of the covers.
Anyway, we begin a complicated gymnastics of undressing.
It’s simple enough for me, but for P. it’s much trickier.
At one point she gets up and unhooks her bra.
Her breasts are swollen and purple, spangled with stains, or rather with hematomata from exceptionally voracious suction, prolonged and repeated.
I am jealous of the man who did this to her.
She rises, gets out of the bed wearing nothing but a transparent T-shirt, goes to put a record on the player and announces the song to the people in the café, then goes into a slightly more discreet corner, takes off her T-shirt and comes back to bed, hiding most of her breasts and privates with her arms and the bit of fabric.
Now someone serves us food on a long table alongside our bed, where two diners are already seated.
They toss us a menu: appetizers, entrée and dessert.
I order only a steak.
They put in front of me a very strange dish, telling me it’s an appetizer, then that no, it’s a dessert for the diner at the end of the table.
My steak arrives, but it looks terrible.
No.
36  December 1970      At the department store   I am in New York with P. We want to go to a department store whose roof we saw over the tops of some houses.
We’re in a car.
I don’t know who’s driving.
We have trouble orienting ourselves and eventually take one-way streets in the wrong direction.
We get to the department store and go into the elevator.
The floors are indicated by a black needle on a circular dial, like on a pendulum.
We arrive on the 10th floor, but the needle says it’s the 2cd.
We get off the elevator.
We’re in the home linens aisle.
P. looks at beach and bath towels; she actually wants to buy sheet bleach or bleach sheets.
Almost everyone is speaking French, but with American phrases mixed in.
I exchange some words with two men.
Then two other men appear, young and completely naked.
They go down the stairs.
One of their backs is covered in little dry round patches that overlap like roof shingles.
I think (or say) “multiple sclerosis,” then I correct myself: “dermosclerosis.”   I leave P. to go look in another aisle.
I take the elevator again.
This time, the floor indicator seems to move at random; at first it calls to mind a wet wristwatch, then I realize there’s a double mechanism operating the arrow, the first corresponding to floor and the second connected to a clock.
Indeed, there is not one but two sets of numbers on the dial, one set larger and in black, the other tiny and in red.
Getting off the elevator, I find P. At the foot of the elevator is a packet (a Moses basket) containing a purse that P. lost the previous night in the river, and two packets of sheet bleach, which consists of little white balls, sort of like naphthalene, that whiten sheets in the wash.      No.
37  December 1970      The plasterer   I am back in Dampierre for a big party.
I’m confident and optimistic but, in the immense kitchen and the many dining rooms, a crowd of people who are all more or less familiar, but neither Z. nor her children.
I look for her in the park.
Shouts are heard: Niki!
Niki!
Niki arrives with her seventeen dogs, who jump on me and nearly knock me over, but then they prove affectionate and frisky.
Though she’s met me only once, Niki shakes my hand enthusiastically and suggests that I call H., one of our mutual friends, to invite him to join us on Wednesday.
Alas, I tell her, on Wednesday I won’t be there anymore.
I walk through kitchens and dining rooms again.
There are more and more people and there’s not enough food for everyone.
The crowd is getting restless.
New arrivals are announced (Z.?
food?).
People watch the road with binoculars; it’s a straight road that goes on forever, but no sign of any arrivals.
Did I see C.?
Did I see S.?
Did they tell me their mother was waiting for me?
Her room is dark, but at one point I saw a hand wiping a window (the glass of a small square window) with a red-checkered handkerchief (Vichy).
A bit later.
Maybe Z. is in the children’s building.
It’s a cardboard house.
To enter the ground floor, you have to first cross an extremely narrow but apparently extensible hallway.
I go in head first, wondering whether—or rather almost not being surprised that—my shoulders will fit.
I’ve already made it half of the way, but inside I see a worker appear (without knowing why, I call him a plasterer): he is coming from the staircase to Z.’s quarters and going toward another staircase.
He is holding an electric drill with a heavy-duty sander on it.
I pull myself out of the duct, which almost seems to come with me, nearly collapsing the whole structure.
At my feet there is someone whom I take at first for a small child, a thin and puny being with an elongated head and skinny little limbs.
The children’s building is now a two-story caravan with a wood and copper double door (like the door of a sleeper car).
I want to go in through this door, and so does the small child, but I take him by the scruff of the neck and throw him back out.
I realize then that it’s a small animal, a bit like a cartoon skunk.
It scratches and bites me.
It looks mean.
I make it into the caravan.
It’s my room.
Z.’s might be upstairs, but it seems less and less certain that Z. is even there.
The animal has managed to enter partway between the first and second doors.
Suddenly I am so frightened that it will make it into my room, then scare me by hiding in the nooks and crannies, that I decide to kill it.
I lay it across my lap; I squeeze its neck, it fights back, but weakly.
It looks harmless (frightened, resigned, big sad eyes); its slender paws twitch in furtive little jolts.
I squeeze harder.
I realize I’m killing it, and soon it’s a small, motionless child.
The pressure in his neck veins has increased, grown stronger and stronger, and suddenly stopped.
(I wake up, fingers all numb, soaked in sweat)   A bit later (waking dream)   I am in a dark room.
In front of me is a door open onto a dimly lit room.
A woman with grey hair and wearing a long dress comes and goes.
But what had been innocuous thus far, not even upsetting, is all at once horrifying: it’s the same woman as that character in Psycho (a young madman dressed like his elderly mother), the sight of whom (in Sfax, ten years earlier) had disturbed me so much that the whole of the night after I was kept awake just remembering my panic and hearing, under the bed and other furniture, noises made by an imaginary animal.
THREE DREAMS FROM J. L.      No.
38  1966      The Palais de la Défense, I   I am in the Palais de la Défense.
It is crumbling.
I rush down a staircase with my wife.
No.
39  1968      The stone bridge   A stone bridge, at the crossing of a road and a river.
A signal sign indicates the name of the place:  (YOU)      In parentheses.
No.
40  1972      The Palais de la Défense, II   I am in the Palais de la Défense.
Its enormous vault seems to be opening, then closing.
Later: I am still in the Palais de la Défense.
There is no longer a vault, or, rather, the vault, the palace, are everywhere.
No.
41  January 1971      The chase in Dublin   An action movie in color; the color is very flat, a fawn-toned monochrome, very “Hollywood” (like Douglas Sirk’s Captain Lightfoot or Raoul Walsh’s The World in His Arms).
It takes place in Dublin, in the XIXth century.
The single central character, whom I am shadowing, is a revolutionary chief who has either been handed over to the police or, rather, been sentenced to death by his former comrades.
He knows it.
He is walking with a small dog and he knows that as soon as two dogs come to track him it will be the signal for the assassins to show themselves.
He does not try to escape what is clearly inevitable; on the contrary, he keeps walking, shows his face all over town, goes into pubs, etc.
People turn away from him, or look at him with hatred, spite or pity.
But no dog will even come close to his dog.
But suddenly, at one point, the dog escapes her master and runs off.
Hasty run to catch her.
For he is willing to die, but he does not want to know when and by whose hand.
Crossing courtyards  Scaling walls  Climbing stairs  Very upsetting: everything and everyone become threatening.
There are at least two shots of the same circular path (actually, the scene always goes in a circle and we end up where we began—like in an engraving by that Swiss artist whose name escapes me (Escher) or, rather, like being on a gigantic Mōbius strip.
There could be scenes with a bit of a “Pepe le Moko” feel to them.
At one point, a bit distressed, I try to “make the image go faster” (to watch myself run up the stairs faster) but I can’t.
No.
42  January 1971      Making the meal   Z. is throwing a party for a friend.
On the other side of a small partition, we—i.e., me supervising a crowd of kitchen hands—are making dinner.
We’re in high spirits, we’re singing.
I’m making some kind of cream, mayonnaise or flan, using lots of ingredients out of boxes: how easy this is!
How appetizing!
But—maybe later, at the end—a small animal comes and eats from the plate.
I’m very cheerful.
I am the fool, the favored entertainer.
No.
43  January 1971      Apartment   Henri G.’s apartment.
Interconnected rooms in “quincunx formation.”  In each room, stereo equipment: tape recorders, radios, stereos, and more, and more, ever more perfect.
No.
44  January 1971      High fidelity   I am walking with P. across the “high fidelity” section of a department store.
Maybe one of the appliances has a particularly remarkable shape?
No.
45  January 1971      The tank   P. and one of her friends and I have moved into an abandoned house.
Though I recall having recently drunk water from the tap, we are told to use only mineral water, even to cook our food.
But the bottle of water we find doesn’t even have a cap.
We sit down to eat.
Under the table we find (a bit like a chewed and abandoned piece of gum) a bit of pâté.
Though it is likely several days old, it doesn’t seem rotten in the slightest, but P. throws it out in disgust.
Out of the high, narrow window, I notice an immense tank.
It’s actually a cliff, but it has the unmistakable look of a tank: large metallic plates covered with layers of varnish or paint that are chipping off in patches or coming loose from their base, like huge blisters.
The whole thing looks muddy, dirty and slippery.
Soon I make out, moving from left to right, a small boy running on the upper tracks of the tank, which is really the length of a path carved into the face of the cliff.
A man is chasing him.
Another man pops up and blocks his passage.
The child’s only chance of escape is to jump, but it’s truly a jump into the wide open and his life is at stake.
It seems clear that he’s hesitant to dive, but at the last minute he loses his balance and jumps, like a child who is pushed into a pool and decides to make a dive of it once he realizes he’s going to fall into the water anyway.
At the very bottom of the cliff-tank is a lake that I can see from the window.
P. and her friend are now on the opposite shore.
The child falls into the lake, feet first, but it’s as though he had jumped from only a few centimeters.
There is very little water.
The child keeps running toward the center of the lake, then, losing his footing, begins to swim.
The two men swim after him.
They are obviously cops and a police boat sets off from the bank and blocks the child’s path.
He dives down and emerges a bit farther off, but this time he’s completely surrounded.
Then a new person pops up: a man with a beard and maybe a pistol.
He is threatening the police, not to kill them but to kill himself if they don’t let the child go.
They do.
I catch up with P. on the bank.
We recount indignantly what we have just seen, like a scandalous and revealing news story.
No.
46  January 1971      Concentration camp in the snow  or  Winter sports in the camp   Only a single image remains: that of someone with shoes made of very hard snow, or ice, irresistibly suggesting the idea of a hockey puck.
No.
47  February 1971      The Chinese restaurant   I am with Henri G. at a very expensive Chinese restaurant.
We’ve been discussing something in the news, no doubt a scuffle between some kids.
Now we see them, the kids, on television.
They’re up on a pedestal, in military dress and performing various mass gymnastics.
No.
48  February 1971      The battery-operated alarm clock    1     I am at a bar with a fairly famous Italian actress.
Though she is over fifty, she is a remarkably pretty woman, still in excellent shape.
She is imagining without rejecting—on the contrary, with satisfaction—the notion of becoming my mistress.
But the clock strikes six and she abruptly gets up and leaves.
2     P. has given me a battery-operated alarm clock; it is spherical and transparent, and has several little suction pads and two oblong pieces attached laterally on each side whose function is unclear.
But Abdelkader Z. is playing with the pieces, losing them.
The alarm clock is unusable.
I am very angry.
3     Major railway strike.
Red flags on the tracks block the trains.
I walk along the rails, suitcase in hand.
I enter a city, perhaps Grenoble.
I cross an intersection where cops (all in plainclothes, looking almost friendly) are gathered.
Before, I had pulled out of the ground one of the innumerable red flags that were planted there and covered my hand with it to carry my suitcase (a gesture I felt was in solidarity with the strikers).
I walk along the palisades.
I get to a church.
Actually, there are no walls, and the floor is made of macadam, like the street, but only a roof held up by pillars.
I look for the priest, who is not there, but I see him suddenly, hiding above his altar.
He comes toward me and says:  “I want to be a father”  “But you cannot you are a priest”  He answers that it makes no difference.
Two herring merchants (the fat Marseillais sort) look at us.
4     The same scene but another setting.
I am at a friend’s house (maybe H.’s).
I am dismayed because I have to return to the army.
I haven’t finished my service yet.
I calculate that I should be free again around February 15th.
They could let it slide, since it’s not worth making me come back for so little time, especially since I’ll have to jump (with a parachute) the following day and all the requisite medical visits will take a long time.
My companions explain to me that they’re going to leave town and go back to Paris, and I won’t see them again.
Maybe the battery-operated alarm clock makes another appearance here.
No.
49  February 1971      M/W   In a book I’m translating, I find two phrases: the first ends with “wrecking their neck,” the second with “making their naked,” a slang expression that means “to strip naked.”      No.
50  February 1971      The intruder   Someone has managed to enter my home through the thin shower partition.
He knocks and calls out to me.
There’s nothing hostile in his voice, in any case.
It’s a woman, I suppose; I smell her at the foot of my bed, she is whispering something in my ear; I am absolutely convinced I’m not dreaming; I wake with a start, a bit panicked, hearing myself say:  “What is it?”  (a few moments later, someone rings at the door.
It’s C., who has come to have breakfast with me and has brought croissants)      No.
51  February 1971      The big courtyard   A courtyard, a huge space surrounded by houses.
I run into Henri C., who tells me he’s going down to Grenoble too and can take me.
We all have dinner together.
I move from table to table.
There is nothing to eat except cheese, and in almost all cases the cheese looks fine but turns out to be crawling with worms.
I tell P. about this, and she says she knew about it, having gone back up to her place.
But she makes me a tart anyway, checking (by opening it all around) that the piece she’s giving me is wormless.
Several times I get up to leave.
I kiss everyone (several girls on the mouth).
Z. is there, staying a bit off to the side, but smiling.
Except for a girl who is crying and refuses to let me kiss her (though she relents later) everyone is relaxed (even though I’m leaving?).
The hugs and kisses goodbye restart several times.
Henri C. and his wife are taking the plane from Grenoble to Paris and I the train.
He reiterates his offer to drive me.
I accept, asking that we leave right away, since I like to get my seat on the train fifteen minutes before it leaves.
Henri C. answers that we still have time for a cup of coffee (it’s foul but it’s hot).
Coffee is served in one of the buildings in the courtyard, the only one with lights on.
There are three steps leading up to it.
Smoke-filled room, poor people eating, a counter in back.
They bring us our coffee outside (we’re crouched on the ground) on a large tray.
There are only three large mugs—one black, two very white—and a teacup.
I take a sip of black coffee, which was not meant for me (but nothing was meant for me).
Henri C. is very elegant, very youthful; he is wearing a soft black hat, which I tell him looks terrific on him.
No.
52  February 1971      Seaside   ’Twas a story replete with twists and turns.
It took place near Nice, by the sea.
Maybe Menton.
Alain Delon was involved, or a friend of Alain Delon.
I had dinner in a restaurant whose owner knew my uncle.
Later, I wanted to go back there; I called, but ultimately I didn’t make a reservation.
My uncle, rather dryly as I recall, scolded me; for what I’m not sure, maybe for not telling him about it.
I returned to Paris in a magnificent machine, ultramodern and very sci-fi.
I remember panoramic portholes.
Dizzying speed.
No.
53  February 1971      The Renshaw   Exchanges  Pillars for 4    common word I forget    Ren-Shaw  (Shaw-Ren)  Inhibition      (I scratched these words out in the night; I find them in the morning; none of them evokes any particular memory)   (recurring Renshaw inhibition is, to put it crudely, a loop system controlling muscular contraction)      No.
54  February 1971      The masters thesis   It might have been at Jean Duvignaud’s, or maybe at Paul Virilio’s.
I notice a mimeographed work on the table and open it.
It’s a masters thesis—devoted to stage design, it seems—written by A. while she was in South America.
I hadn’t heard about it, but I am at once surprised and pleased that she did something during her long stay.
There is a particular detail: the title page was composed by (and here some sort of famous name) on an IBM 307 (let’s say).
I remember, on that note, that Pierre G. had once spoken to me of automatic composition.
This might take place at a cocktail party where things like this make for good conversation.
No.
55  March 1971      The support polygon   I am on the street with P. and Henri G. There are buses.
We’re talking about the elephant’s support polygon.
Henri G. reminds me that the center of gravity is located slightly toward the front (or slightly toward the back?)
of the body; no effort is required to be upright, or only a tiny effort.
This explanation obviously applies to high heels.
No.
56  March 1971      Sperm and theater   (at some point during the morning I remember that I had a dream, from which only the two following words surface: Sperm, theater).
No.
57  March 1971      The return   Since I left her, Z. has been living with two men whom she does not love but who are incredibly rich; one is an engineer and the other some sort of Maharajah who has engaged him to build a fabulous house.
I watch as the house is built.
I arrive at the bottom of a high white wall; it’s run through, fairly high overhead, with a large opening (future window or bay window) at the edge of which are two tilers, a man and a woman.
I think I know them; in any case, they know me, because the woman asks me whether the third printing of Things has come out, then thanks me for having written that book, then tells me that, while we’re at it, there ought to be a translation for people who stutter.
This idea amuses me greatly.
Meanwhile, with great difficulty, I’ve managed to climb up to the opening with the help of (in the absence of a ladder) a rather thin but extremely sturdy wooden frame, and with a painful maneuver I stand myself up at the edge of the room where the tilers are working.
Though it’s forbidden to walk on freshly laid tiling (you move on little bridges made from planks and bricks), the tilers give me permission to enter the house.
The tiling, which at first I think is the same as in the little house in Filagne, which is to say quadrangular, is hex- or octagonal; and the tiles vary in size, from minuscule to enormous, and the tilers’ very art consists in resolving the delicate (and impossible) topological problems created by this disparity.
I move forward—reciting to myself, laughing, the first few sentences of Things while stuttering—sinking imperceptibly (but with a very distinct sensation) into the fresh cement.
Some tiles are elevated above others; at first I think they’re meant to be walked on, or that they’re accidents; then I understand that they’re decorative elements, like floating islands, like the rocks emerging from the sand of Zen gardens.
Memories of my life with the Maharajah begin to blur: I was the personal valet of the Maharajah, his right-hand man.
I carried his briefcase and spent my time organizing it even though it contained nothing of importance.
We had to leave for an official trip; the departure was scheduled for a certain time, but the Maharajah kept everyone hopelessly waiting.
The Maharajah is a capricious man: he is never ready, he no longer wants to go, etc.
I spend my time coming and going between my room and his apartments, and explaining his whims in nearly Racinian terms to a confidant.
Once I went to beg him to go, not for my sake but for that of the soldiers in his escort, knights with chain-mail coats, one of whom stood trembling right before me.
Furious, the Maharajah threw his glass of vodka in my face (or, more precisely, over my head, like in a baptismal aspersion), then shattered the glass while cursing at me.
This didn’t bother me that much; what frustrated me most was that, all the way down the long hallway leading back to my room, the soldier whom I wanted so badly to help, and his wife (who was none other than P.), wouldn’t stop making fun of me.
Another time, on the other hand, the Maharajah awarded me a decoration.
It was a rectangular silver plaque, roughly the size of a 10-franc bill, very complexly corrugated: you could imagine it divided into, say, twelve squares, alternately hollow and embossed; each hollow and each embossing divided in turn into twelve hollows and embossments, and so on …   Ultimately, the Maharajah’s hesitations had no consequence whatsoever.
I thought it was six o’clock and that the departure had been irremediably compromised, but according to the big clock in my room it was only one p.m.
Moreover, even later, I was in line at the métro station and it was only eleven a.m.
The line at the métro station was either to not buy a ticket or to buy a ticket out of the métro.
Everyone found this grotesque, in any case.
We could see, down below in the distance, train cars.
On the left, at the bottom of a small iron staircase, were three doors; on the first nothing was written; on the second, something like CHORISTS’ ENTRANCE; on the third KITCHENS.
My confidant told me, or rather reminded me (I had been informed shortly before) that the RATP served affordable meals, even free for those unable to pay, but in the latter case they served only a cheaper plate of just cold meat, and I concluded from this that no hot meals were available there.
Back to Z.’s house.
“Strange,” I tell myself, “usually she covers her floors uniformly, with stones or with a carpet; here she’s chosen an altogether different approach, doubtless under the influence of the Maharajah and his architects; true, she has a great deal of means at her disposal, whence these differently sized tiles, these large rocks emerging from the stones, this marvelous parquet of blond wood and the intricate pattern …”  Her room is a veritable sea of blue carpet.
All the rooms where she normally lives have been reconstructed faithfully.
I’m certain I will find my old room (haven’t I come to take a book—a man asleep—from my library?).
At the end of the corridor, I open a door and find two men, very tall, dressed in business clothes; they seem nervous to see me, almost afraid, and flee out the other side.
Another door.
I am in a sort of dressing room.
Z. appears, her back to me; she is naked; in passing she grabs a red bathrobe and disappears through a side door.
/ /  I tell Z. I’ve come to find a book.
Where is my old library?
She tells me it’s in her son’s place.
I go to see her son; he is seated at his work table.
“How’s it going?”  “Fine!”  I don’t see my library, but I’m not even thinking about it anymore.
Walking in front of the two men, Z. and I prepare to leave the house.
We are crossing the patio.
It’s a very long room (the one I watched being built) whose sides are taken up by terraces and in which you move around on thin stone paths, on top of narrow canals filled with water.
Lots of flowers.
Tables with lots of people.
Party ambiance.
Hullabaloo.
I hear things like  “Your party is, was a smashing success,”  then, more distinctly,  “Champagne and Perrier.”  Z. says a few words in English.
We go down rue Soufflot.
We are walking, Z. and I, fairly far ahead of the two men.
Z. can’t stop laughing:  “I was so sure you’d come, I didn’t even need to wait for you.
You see, this morning nothing, the telephone didn’t even ring, and here you are!”  She seems perfectly reassured, ironic and mean.
I realize I have no cigarettes with me.
I spot a little tobacco shop on the right.
I run over (across the street, I think).
It’s a tiny room where they sell mostly haberdashery.
There is a partially screened counter.
Some young girls all dressed in red are crowded in front of the counter, no doubt schoolgirls or boarders.
On the other side of the counter are two young women dressed the same way, and a few more schoolgirls.
I get impatient.
“I’d like filtered Gitanes and a box of matches.”  “We don’t have filtered Gitanes.”  I’m preparing to ask for different cigarettes when I see, on a shelf to the right, a whole bundle of random, unsorted packs of cigarettes, among them a pack of filtered Gitanes.
