I point to it.
They give it to me.
I pay and leave.
I look for Z., but she has disappeared along with the two men.
A moment of despair, followed by an almost reassuring feeling of irrevocability.
My error in seeing her again wasn’t so great, then, because now she’s disappeared once more.
As is my habit, I tear off the translucent paper covering my pack of cigarettes.
I then realize with anger that I’ve been sold not a pack of cigarettes but a large box of matches.
I walk down boulevard Saint-Michel on the right-hand sidewalk.
It’s Friday.
Though it’s only 4 p.m. it is dark, or almost dark.
I decide to call M., though I am convinced it will be useless.
I go into a tobacco shop.
I wait in front of the register.
The customer in front of me leaves holding a newspaper that had been covering half of the newsman’s counter.
I find a five-centime piece, go to put it in my pocket, and instead give it to the newsman (an old man), who commends me for my honesty.
I give him a ten-franc bill and ask for a pack of filtered Gitanes and a box of matches, or 2.10 francs.
But he makes several mistakes while trying to give me my change.
Ultimately, I have to do as follows:  ask him for a pack of cigarettes, or 2 francs, with a 10-franc bill.
He’ll give me 8 back;  give him a 1-franc coin and ask for a box of matches, or 10 centimes, so that he gives me back 90 centimes.
But it’s not even clear that this transaction will work.
No.
58  March 1971 (in the morning following the night of dream no.
57)      Snow   (… no doubt I finally called  M. who told me to come get her)   I find her almost in front of her building.
She’s smiling.
We begin walking arm in arm.
She’s wearing a white jacket with four pockets and I only a T-shirt.
I realize I have only 20, or 40, or 60 francs in my pocket, though we’re planning to have dinner at Balzar; but I tell myself it’s okay because I can always tell the maître d’ that I’ll come back and pay the next day; a bit later, I realize it’s even easier for us to go to a bar where I settle my tab monthly.
Though I’m not expecting anything in particular from this evening, thinking I’m still indifferent to M., I realize bit by bit that M. loves me.
At one point, we kiss.
For an instant I am flooded with joy, but soon some concerns surface.
First of all, M. seems much taller than usual, almost too tall for me; I have to stand on tiptoe and crane my neck up to see her face!
Also, her hair isn’t done as it usually is; half of it is blown up in front with large swooping waves.
Her eyes are not exactly her eyes, but they’re still pretty eyes.
We resume walking.
She hooks her left arm around my waist and, laughing, caresses my navel and fly with her long fingers.
She presses against me.
I harden at the contact with her stomach, my hands gliding along her smooth back.
We keep walking.
She tells me she sent her children to boarding school; she tried to kill herself but she doesn’t tell me how.
Now she lives at Hôtel Degotex.
“If you could see my room!” she tells me, laughing.
I tell her that she will come live with me and that she’ll be perfectly happy there.
A girlfriend of hers joins us.
We arrive in the Montagne Sainte-Geneviève neighborhood.
We climb up a narrow, sinuous street.
Soon the pavement is replaced with thick, close-cropped grass.
Two passenger cars pass us.
In one there is a mourning woman, in a state of complete prostration.
Soon it becomes a snowy path, less and less passable.
Lots of people are getting worn out climbing up the sides.
We make painstaking progress.
I see that my grey sock has a hole in the toe, then it’s just a bit worn, then it’s covered with its shoe (it’s a Church Bros. shoe).
I was also surprised to be wearing only socks.
At the very end, a little ice cliff that’s very difficult to climb.
You have to plant an ice axe in the ice, well above your head, balance on it (execute a difficult pull-up), balance on the axe before you can try to touch the top of the cliff with your fingertips and make it up there with another pull-up.
But before even getting that far, you have to climb a rather steep still hill heap.
M. goes for it.
I want to follow her but I can’t.
All of my will (and it’s the only thing I want to do at this moment) is useless; my muscles are like cotton.
M.’s friend signals to us to come down; a bit farther on is a road that goes straight off, with no snow on it.
We are somewhere near Lans.
Did we cross a mountain pass?
It seems to me that this road and the path we’re coming from are part of the same valley.
This vaguely frustrating situation seems to be written on a chalkboard that someone is carrying by and which says something like  There are not two passes    They meet    There is only one pass    There is no pass    There is nothing      No.
59  March 1971      The avenger   / /   / /   After a long absence, the Avenger returns to Mexico.
A traitor is about to shoot him in the back when a gloved hand rises up and stops him.
Long horseback rides to protect watering holes and secret sources.
In town, riots break out.
The gates of the grand plaza have been torn off, the posters torn down.
The country is dominated by a petty tyrant, a servant of Yankee imperialism.
Many twists and turns, which become gags in the style of Lucky Luke.
/ /      No.
60  March 1971      Bread liberation   A “Brechtian” musical comedy.
1     We are marines.
We are shipping off to war.
There is great confusion in the passageway.
Nobody knows exactly which room to take.
2     We have set sail.
The liner, viewed from above: majestic.
It’s understood this war is going to be something terrible; it seems as though a bomb is going to fall right on the liner.
The liner is full of oblong compartments (not unlike coffins) arranged in long parallel rows, some of which have lids that clack shut (when the “coffin” is empty) while others stay stubbornly closed.
It’s like a Busby Berkeley ballet, or like the bank of mussels Alphonse Allais taught to play the castanets.
Soon it’s clear that these are crew cabins, then that it’s the bread, which is sealed (vacuum-packed under a nylon sheath).
3  GREAT CAMPAIGN FOR THE LIBERATION OF BREAD     With a friend (H.M.) I’m performing a duet dance number, very Astaire-Kelly, while singing:  Don’t shut away the bread    The bread must be free (ad.
lib.)
We persuade various trade associations, who are seen for just a moment in intensely colored close-ups in the film.
Thus, a “mustachioed General Boulanger.”      4     Large demonstration.
My friend (or is it me?)
takes a microphone that has dropped down from the sky and shouts:  “In a few seconds, under the direction of [stumbles through a comically overlong name], the Marine Orchestra will perform the Bread Liberation.”     Music.
The musicians are far above us.
We’re on the quay and they’re on the liner.
5     I find a friend (or it’s still H.M.).
He shows me his new wife (he used to have an enormous wife, like an Italian matriarch): a slender woman in a long coat.
I insist on going to their house, but he begins to embrace and caress his wife and soon I find myself caressing her too and, finally, naked on top of her and, though she crossed her legs at first, planted strong and deep inside of her.
No.
61  March 1971      Rougeot   Moved by a sort of premonition—one entirely vindicated by what would happen—I arranged for C.T.
not to stay and made a “backup meeting” with P. at the Rougeot restaurant near Montparnasse.
At Rougeot, I find P. with F. I am furious.
P. says to me only:  “Indeed, Rougeot really is quite good.”      No.
62  March 1971 (Sarrebruck)     Dream B.
One of the singers I am to meet tomorrow is a granddaughter of Miss B.
This surprises me at first—Miss B. is not married and has no children—until I remember having met, long ago, in Switzerland, a young Yugoslavian couple of which the man was also a grandchild in the B. family.
I can’t even believe this memory had never come back to me.
No.
63  March 1971 (Sarrebruck)      Urban Western   (Revenge.
Each side counts its dead.
Sniper rifle.
On the train.
Passing through customs.
Flowers in their vases.
(Pseudo-)leftist pamphlets)      At the end, I’m supposed to go with the customs agent to see his manager.
He tells me to wait in the dining car.
It seems empty at first, but all of the tables are taken.
The bar stools are free, but some children playing in front of the bar have put their lottery cards on them.
I look out the window.
A soft hill.
This is the exact spot where, last year, the Vigilante launched his attack on us.
The train begins again.
I look at a map.
We have just left Buda, we are crossing a bridge, a long island, another bridge, before stopping again in Pest where, I hope, I will find the solution.
No.
64  March 1971      Bone   It must be P. who, while stroking my head, which is bald—my hair is only a sort of wig or mask—notices that my “frontal” bone (that is, a bone that covers the top of the skull like the cover of a soup tureen, but flatter, barely rounded) is moving.
This frightens me at first.
Mind the fontanels, which might not be fully bound yet even after so long!
Then I check for myself.
Passing my thumbnails along the edge of the bone, I barely need to apply pressure for the bone (like the case of my alarm clock or the battery cover on my radio) to come loose and go rolling around on the floor.
I can see my cortex.
I pick up my bone and put it back in place.
I begin to worry again, more and more, about the chance of infection.
Later, I dare to move my head and my bone does not fall, which is reassuring.
I’m glad to know it’s just a dream.
/ /   I am in Dampierre, in my old room.
There are spider webs everywhere.
I begin to suit up to leave on motorcycle.
I pick up my shoes.
They’re full of spider webs and tiny droppings, like little grains of wheat or lentils.
On the sole is a large spider, which I eventually crush.
No.
65  April 1971      Planks    1     Dampierre.
I go into the bathroom on the second floor.
It’s a little room where you can see without being seen.
I think I see C. but it’s a little girl in a red dress.
2     There are three of us.
We’re stealing various things, then two planks of wood from an empty storefront next to the department store near Ledru-Rollin.
Nobody is watching us, but I ask a nearby artisan whether we can.
Even though he didn’t want anything from me!
Obviously, he answers that it doesn’t matter for one plank, but he’s not allowed to give up the other.
We return both to him.
I am with J.L.
in a narrow alley—it looks a bit like the passage Choiseul—near the Bastille.
There is a “New Order” demonstration, with parachutists.
At the end of the alley, a small door with a gate.
The lock is not in the middle of the gate but at the very top.
We have to return to this narrow alley to pick up the packets J.L.
and I left there.
I run into my boss; he introduces me to several American friends whose names I already know (they turn up frequently in my file).
We watch a baseball game.
We realize that cops are gathering behind the players.
Back in the alley.
Suddenly I’m afraid.
No doubt we should run, but there are too many—decidedly too many, far too many bags.
No.
66  April 1971      The triangle   During a meal, we are exchanging good crossword clues, particularly a film title.
J.L.
takes me aside to give me a word of advice: I should stop working at the laboratory; I should get up at noon, go to the movies each day from 2 to 4, and make my crossword puzzles afterwards.
“But I can’t make a living off my crossword puzzles,” I tell him.
Yes I can, he tells me, I’ll be able to place them and everything; I just have to spend two hours, not three days, on each.
A bit later, J.L.
puts a record on the turntable: it’s barely modern music, more like modern music aping its classical influences.
Everyone says it’s lovely.
“These are,” says J.L., “ ‘Musical recommendations to the Radio Luxembourg Orchestra,’ by Lolita von Paraboom.” Someone makes a crack about the fact that it’s a “commissioned work”; someone specifies that it’s from 1968 or 1969.
There are three of us in the room.
J.L.
on the stairs in the back, near the record player; me standing near a long wooden table, and a stranger (male or female?)
who is equidistant from me and from J.L.
We trace between the three of us a right triangle whose long side is J/me, whose short side is J/the stranger (m/f), and the hypotenuse the stranger (m/f) and me …      No.
67  May 1971      The stolen letter   I think I have woken up.
There are lots of maids in my room.
But is it really my room?
I’m by a body of water.
To cross it, I take a footbridge that becomes a suspension bridge over the Seine.
At the middle I see the date 1953.
Someone has stolen the letter I had in my pocket.
I am running a sprint with a black woman.
No.
68  May 1971      I-words   There seem to be—really?—three words in my file that begin with the letter I:  Impedance  Inhibition  I?
Wasn’t there something else before?
At the theater?
Three sketches?
No.
69  May 1971      Othon   Jean-Marie Straub’s film, Othon, inspired by the Corneille play, has a different name.
Maybe it’s the Corneille play that has a different name?
Actually, there’s another text too, hidden beneath the first, which I try in vain to decipher.
No.
70  May 1971      The two-way switch   I agree to take in a cat.
Who is this cat?
(complicated genealogy…)  Where will he relieve himself?
On the street major public works are being done; they’re installing a two-way switch system for cars.
Actually, it’s only a question of cuts to make to a text (A man asleep?)
No.
71  May 1971      The bus   … first there’s the frightfully complicated consultation of a restaurant menu, which ends with going up and down staircases, perhaps in pursuit of indifferent maîtres d’.
All we want to know is how long this or that dish will take to prepare.
It seems the waiting times are so long that we have time to go play a game of Go somewhere fairly far out of town.
We get on a bus.
I’m sitting in the middle of the bus, on the left side.
Jacques R., his wife and his daughter are in front, on the right, near the door.
At the back of the bus (so I can see only if I turn around) is a sort of display stand, which I find at once elegant, practical, and banal; by banal I mean that someone should have thought of it long ago.
At one point the bus stops and Jacques R. gets off.
We seem to be right by Notre-Dame de Lorette, where he lives.
His wife is no longer there.
But someone makes a comment to the effect of:  “Why is he getting off when his wife is here?” to which someone else replies:  “No, idiot, that’s his daughter.”   Anyway, the bus leaves.
It has become a passenger car.
At the wheel is Pierre L. or Jean-Pierre P. It quickly becomes clear that they’re driving very badly; for starters, they go the wrong way down a one-way street.
I am in another car next to the (unidentified) driver and we’re increasingly sure that they’re going to get in an accident.
Indeed, a bit later, on a large and busy road, there is a spectacular pileup, though it proves soon enough to have caused more noise than harm.
The two drivers of the crashed vehicles are circling each other in a slow ballet.
Pierre L. (or Jean-Pierre P.) has a crank in his hand; the other driver holds a brick.
They rush at each other, stop, Pierre L. leaves, then suddenly turns around and mimes hitting the other driver.
Oil flows from the car   A large puddle collects by the side of the road and grows to the size of a river where washerwomen come to beat their clothes.
No.
72  May 1971      The carnival   With a young woman who works in the same laboratory as me, I’m getting ready to take a bus to go home.
The bus arrives.
It’s empty except for a single person at the back, who is Z. I board and, after thinking for a long time, I ask the conductor to give me a single ticket and I pay with a one-franc coin.
I sit next to my colleague, facing Z. but fairly far from her.
To all indications she hasn’t seen me, but deep down I’m sure she has.
We are passed by some motorcyclists, then we come to a crazy carnival that seems to have been organized by high school students.
There’s a whole series of painted backdrops, trompe-l’œil, makeup, etc., made with a sort of liquid plastic matter; the colors are very bright: mauve, candy pink, red, etc.
It’s sold in pressurized tubes, so quite easy to use.
Various carnival scenes.
Battle reenactment; an enormous shell falls awfully from a howitzer; a whole section of the street is heaved up, as though a gigantic mole were burrowing underneath it.
This now seems to be happening near rue de l’Assomption.
A young boy is lying in a pool of (fake) blood with a grimace of feigned agony; I look at him in passing, but without showing any emotion, and he seems disappointed that I didn’t appreciate his performance (or that I didn’t show my appreciation).
The road back is now the little road in Dampierre.
There’s a whole group of us.
They’re explaining how the plastic bombs work, insisting on how practical they are.
At the table in Dampierre.
I’m across from Z.
There is a ridiculously small cheese-plate.
Z. explains how difficult it is to find good cheeses.
Someone brings a slice of brie that needs to be cut, or, more precisely, whose rind needs to be removed.
I try to do so with a long knife that I find next to me, but someone on my left (maybe S.B.)
takes the plate from me and passes it to Z. I groan, saying something like  “I can’t do anything right here.”  I notice that I’ve made a tiny cut on my index finger; it seems covered in soot and I have to press down hard to see a drop of blood form.
No.
73  May 1971      P. sings   P. is singing.
She’s singing remarkably well.
The song is in a realist style, but very moving.
We walk together down rue des Boulangers.
She’s going to work and I want to go see my aunt on rue de l’Assomption.
I suggest that we walk some of the way (it’s nice out).
I ask how she managed to get a chorus to accompany her at the end of the song.
She tells me it was done with a recording and tells me the name of the system—something like “video-tape”—she used.
She was singing on the street, and people were even turning around to listen to her, but she was still accompanied, as though on a record.
I’m pleased for her that she is singing.
We plan her repertoire and her career.
She will begin at Galerie 55, then at l’Écluse, etc.
I’m certain I can help her, that her talent will win many people over.
I dream that she’s already a star.
We are slightly lost in a remote neighborhood.
We’re walking down a staircase; I notice she’s not wearing anything under her white cloth jacket and that she has a lovely chest.
The staircase is carved out of wood, very rococo.
I descend it by sliding down the banister, thinking “in petto” that it must be childish to do such things at my age, but I’m also very happy to be doing it.
I arrive at the bottom; while trying to get off the banister, I notice that my head is stuck between the banister bars and, across from me, through the unpolished window of the lodge, I see the shadow of the security guard getting up.
I manage to free myself in time.
I leave, but I feel the presence of the guard behind me, following me out of the building.
I turn left.
I see P. in the distance.
There are two signs in the street; on one, closer and toward the left, is written “Ollé” (or “Olla”); on the other, a bit farther off and to the right, is written “OPERA.” We go that way.
P. is waiting for me not far from a little girl sitting on a garden chair with a schoolbag in her hand.
I head toward P., first walking, then running faster and faster, remarking to myself, “I’m definitely giving the impression of a uniformly accelerating speed”; still, I feel spikes in my acceleration.
When I arrive, I pretend to grab a comic book that P. is holding under her arm.
She tells me that people do that often but I have to arrive slower, and suggests that I start again.
I walk back to do so and notice then that the little girl sitting beside P. has blood (or strawberry jam) all over her mouth.
I approach P. running slowly, but the book I take, which was a hardcover illustrated book (like Asterix or Lucky Luke) has become just a newspaper …   (interrupted by “FIP 514, it’s 10:30!”)      No.
74  June 1971      The Quest for California   I am with P. and someone else in California.
We search for something—what?—for a long time, in vain.
Regardless of your mode of transport, you have to pay a tax to get out of a room in San Francisco.
Will I take an airplane?
A train?
A car?
There is a desert surrounding San Francisco.
Beware of forest fires.
For many years, people came by sea (Chinese).
At the top of a hill on the outskirts of town, there is a sort of advertising column with a switch and an electrical wire attached by a very crude splice.
Anxiety: it would take almost nothing to set the whole brush on fire.
I take the train.
After the long trip across the desert, I am to arrive in Lyons, then somewhere else (Bordeaux?
Marseilles?
Paris?
Not far from Lyons, in any case).
I am alone in a bunk.
It seems like we’ve just departed, but the train arrives in Lyons.
I call P., who is in the next compartment.
She comes to join me, walking on the steps outside the wagon.
Now we are 4 in my compartment: P., me, and two of her girlfriends.
The three women undress simultaneously, lifting their blouses over their heads, and wind up on the bunk under the same sheet.
They all still have their underwear on.
For my part, I’m completely naked; I bunch my underwear and socks into a ball and slide it under a fold in the bed.
I make love to the three women, one after the other.
I notice then that I’m on some sort of wide pedestal and that everyone in the wagon can see us.
Not far from us, four men are sitting around a table; they look a bit like gangsters.
Slowly, the train crosses the town of Coursons.
I’m surprised: if we’ve passed Lyons, this can’t be Coursons, and yet it is Coursons: P. recognizes it well, me less so, having been there only once.
Then the light bulb goes off: it’s Coursons in the Nièvre (and I add: “You don’t know …”), not Coursons in the Yonne.
On a sloping street you can see a sign indicating: Paris (or Marseilles) 4 (a digit in the tens place); a bit later, the confusion (is it 40 … or 49) clears: it’s 41.
No.
75  June 1971      The painters   In a huge empty apartment, no doubt Denis B.’s.
Gisèle lived across from an even bigger apartment (wasn’t it that big, the place on rue de l’Assomption?).
I’m sleeping on the bare floor, on a mattress with no frame.
In the next room J.L., or R.K., is typing on my typewriter.
Are we mad at each other?
I pretend to be asleep.
They move about not far from me and eventually leave.
Maybe S.B.
will show up a bit later and slide under the sheets next to me?
Very quickly, a crowd takes over the apartment.
Above all, four painters who, though the apartment seems rather clean (shiny lacquered walls), are beginning to repaint it.
They intend to “make something of it.”      No.
76  July 1971      The renovation   I enter the courtyard of a building under renovation (just as mine is under renovation).
Everything is very white and very dusty.
There was an external elevator, which has been enlarged and moved.
There was a stone fountain, which has been moved to the other side.
The pipes are still there, but the stones of the base and basin have been moved.
A whole section of the wall has been reduced to rubble: a newly installed metal ceiling beam runs across it (like in the old “Taride” building at Mabillon).
No.
77  July 1971      The vendor   I have killed my wife and cut her rather crudely into small pieces, which I have wrapped hastily in paper bundles.
The whole of her fits in a cardboard box, which is still relatively easy to handle.
My only hope is for someone to make her into wine or alcohol.
I go to the distillery.
I walk without knocking into a room where there are three women in overalls.
Two are sitting down, the third is standing near a waist-high double door (like a saloon door).
Either I address them with a wink, like we know one another, or I call out, flatly, something like:  “I have 50 kilos of quality meat!”  The young woman who was standing brings me into a tiny room, where she begins to examine my merchandise.
My package has all the necessary labels, but the young woman claims that the firm I represent is not an approved client of her Company and that I’m going to have a hard time closing the deal.
As a sample, I take a series of small bottles from the package.
This should be no more than a simple formality, but, to my great confusion, there are more and more bottles: red wine, white wine, rosé, all sorts of liquor, even a pitcher of water—tiny, but full and above all uncorked: you could dip a finger in without making it overflow, which strikes me as an indubitable experimental demonstration of osmosis or of capillarity.
All the demonstration proves useless: a man comes out from the office next door and tells me this will end badly for me if they don’t find my name in their files.
No.
78  July 1971      The trip   I had learned long ago to jump from a certain height (for example from the top of a high beam).
This time, I seem to be much higher, almost at the first story of the Eiffel Tower.
Below I can clearly see the grass and sand grooves of a garden, and I’m convinced I’ll die if I jump.
But finally I learn that I don’t have to jump from this height, just from a much lower beam, and for that matter not even jump from it, just cross it.
H.M. and I are on a boat from New York to Paris.
This obviously takes much longer than flying, but it’s much more pleasant.
We’re going to show a film at a festival whose first half was in New York and whose second half is to be in Paris.
A fire breaks out in a cabin on the level below.
H.M. and I rush down and save the passengers.
We are the heroes of the day and the passengers honor us.
I return to my cabin.
A steward is there.
He makes me realize how pleasant it all is.
He changes my towels and, seeing that I’m a little sweaty, dabs my face with a towel (one of the ones he’s collected to change).
I go to H.M.’s cabin.
I learn that we are on the festival jury.
The jury is called “the helical complex” and consists of 4 jurors: H.M. and myself, and two farmers who are just this moment coming into the cabin; they are from Villard-de-Lans, which H.M. knows well; one of them is “Lulu,” whom I know also (no doubt I was in school with him during the war), but the second is unknown to me even though his face looks familiar.
No.
79  July 1971 (Lans)      The actress, I    1     I am in New York at a gigantic coffee shop.
2     In Paris, a café terrace, enormous.
There are lots of people, especially Algerians, with a vaguely menacing air.
3     I forget my satchel on the terrace; there are 2,500 francs in it.
I go back to get it; obviously, nothing.
I am genuinely devastated.
My only hope is that I am dreaming (I wake up, relieved).
4     I’m visiting a female friend (nothing between us, just friends).
The actress M.D.
arrives.
She is a tall woman, pretty and cheerful, with long blond hair; she is naked under a light dress.
I begin touching her, caressing her “absent-mindedly.”  I wind up on top of her, fondling her bare breasts.
I make love to her.
No.
80  July 1971 (Lans)      The rehearsal   Rehearsals for my next play have begun.
We’re already on set.
I am explaining to the director, Marcel Cuvelier, the importance of the 6th character, who is mute but who appears to be spared the fate to which the 5 others are bound.
I am a soldier in Grenoble.
I take 8 days of vacation, to go to Lans or Villard.
I call to explain that I’m sick: spots on my skin, pityriasis, or, rather, to make the case more extreme, psoriasis.
A woman answers, kindly but neutral.
She doesn’t seem to think this is possible, but she agrees to “prepare my file” anyway.
After a long time pondering, I try to remember the tune and the words of a song I wrote in 1941.
No.
81  July 1971 (Lans)      The man with a dog    1     I am visiting one of my nieces and her boyfriend.
I am concerned to learn that they only got an average of 80 on their exams, when they would have needed 100.
My niece suddenly seems swollen, almost ugly.
I tell myself the life she is leading with her boyfriend isn’t working out.
2     I return home.
I live in a large single room in the same house as my niece.
Above me, in a third apartment, live either P. or F. and an Algerian friend.
I go to see P.; I find F., accompanied by another Algerian and Henri C. The three men seem each as unfriendly as the next, even almost hostile.
3     Out of some unknown necessity, I move a meeting scheduled for that night to the following day (which will be July 30th) at 11 a.m.      4     Now I remember with a sort of panic that I made an appointment for July 29th with a psychoanalyst, Mr. Bezu, at 34 rue Daru.
I call Mr. Bezu to cancel the appointment.
I have a very complicated conversation with his secretary, because she doesn’t want to give me another appointment, though I insist on asking for the appointment that would normally have followed this one anyway.
After much hesitation, the secretary finally concedes and gives me an appointment for July 30th at 2 p.m.
This seems surprising to me, since at first it seems to me that the 30th is a Sunday.
But in fact it’s a Saturday.
I call from a phone booth and by the end of the conversation I have stepped halfway out.
When I go back in to hang up, I find an old, kindly-looking man who shows me how I could have made the call without paying: just strip the wires and place them on the contacts, squeezing them between thumb and forefinger.
5     I go to rue Daru: it’s in a neighborhood that’s being torn down.
In fact, it’s a large esplanade where all the remains of the quarter are on display.
It’s very white.
Some details look like paintings by Niki de Saint Phalle, as though they were made of celluloid baby parts.
I look around the exhibit, followed a few paces behind by Henri C., who is carrying a dog in his arms.
