Everyone has dreams.
Some remember theirs, far fewer recount them, and very few write them down.
Why write them down, anyway, knowing you will only sell them out (and no doubt sell yourself out in the process)?
I thought I was recording the dreams I was having; I have realized that it was not long before I began having dreams only in order to write them.
These dreams—overdreamed, overworked, overwritten—what could I then expect of them, if not to make them into texts, a bundle of texts left as an offering at the gates of that “royal road” I still must travel with my eyes open?
Insofar as I have sought some degree of homogeneity in the transcription and then the composition of these dreams, it seems worth giving a few specifications on their typography and formatting:   —a paragraph break corresponds to a change in time, place, feeling, mood, etc., felt as such within the dream;   —the use of italics, which is rare, indicates a particularly striking element of the dream;   —the greater or lesser size of the gap between paragraphs is meant to correspond to the greater or lesser importance of passages that were forgotten or indecipherable upon waking;   —the sign / / indicates an intentional omission.
No.
1  May 1968      The height gauge   The height gauge (the name escapes me: metronome, perch) where must stay ad.
lib.
for several hours.
Naturally.
The armoire (the two hiding places).
The rehearsal.
Humiliation.
?.
Arbitrary power.
A scene with several people.
There is a height gauge in the corner.
I know I am at risk of having to spend several hours under it; it’s an act of bullying rather than real torture, but extremely uncomfortable, because there is nothing holding the top of the gauge and, after a while under it, one might shrink.
Naturally, I am dreaming and I know that I am dreaming, naturally, that I am in a prison camp.
It’s not really a prison camp, of course, but an image of a prison camp, a dream of a prison camp, a prison-camp metaphor, a prison camp I know only as a familiar image, as though I were ceaselessly dreaming the same dream, as though I never dreamed of anything else, as though I never did anything but dream of this prison camp.
It’s clear that the threat of the gauge is enough, at first, to concentrate in itself all the terror of the camp.
And then it seems it’s not so bad.
In any case, I escape the threat; it doesn’t come to pass.
But it is precisely my avoidance of this threat that most clearly proves the essence of the camp: the only thing that saves me is the indifference of the torturer, his liberty to do or not to do; I am entirely at the mercy of his arbitrary power (in exactly the same way as I am at the mercy of this dream: I know it is only a dream, but I cannot escape it).
The second sequence modifies these themes slightly.
Two characters (one is without a doubt myself) open an armoire in which two hiding spots have been forged, crammed with deportees’ valuables.
By “valuables” I mean any objects that could increase the safety and chances of survival of their owner, be they bare necessities or objects with some exchange value.
The first hiding spot contains woolens, countless woolens, old and moth-eaten and drab.
The second hole, which contains money, is made of a rocker device: one of the armoire’s shelves is hollow inside and its cover lifts up like that of a school desk.
But this little stash seems unsound, and I am just activating the mechanism that opens it to take the money out when someone enters.
An officer.
In an instant we understand that all of this is useless anyway.
It also becomes clear that dying and leaving this room are one and the same.
The third sequence could surely, had I not forgotten it completely, have supplied a name for the camp: Treblinka, or Terezienbourg, or Katowice.
The performance might have been the Terezienbourg Requiem (Les Temps modernes 196., no., pp.…–…).
The moral of this faded episode seems to invoke older dreams: we can save ourselves (sometimes) by playing.…      No.
2  November 1968      Tiles   With a laugh that can be described only as “sardonic,” she began to make passes at a stranger, in my presence.
I said nothing.
She kept it up, so I eventually left the room.
I am in my room with A. and a casual acquaintance, whom I am teaching to play Go.
He seems to understand the game, until I realize he thinks he is learning to play bridge.
The game actually consists of distributing letter tiles (more like a kind of lotto than a kind of Scrabble).
No.
3  November 1968      Itinerary   : known secret maze, doors of chests (round, armored), hallways, very long trek toward the encounter   and then the same path now known to all.
No.
4  December 1968      Illusion   I am dreaming  She is beside me  I tell myself I’m dreaming  But the pressure of her hand against mine feels too strong  I wake up  She really is beside me  Delirious joy  I turn on the lights  Light bursts forth for a hundredth of a second then goes out  (a rattling lamp)  I embrace her   (I wake up: I am alone)      No.
5  December 1968      The dentist   At the end of a maze of covered walkways, a bit like in a souk, I arrive at a dentist’s office.
The dentist is out but her son, a young boy, is there.
He asks me to come back later, then changes his mind and tells me his mother will be back any moment.
I leave.
I run into a tiny woman, pretty and cheerful.
It’s the dentist.
She leads me to the waiting room.
I tell her I don’t have time.
She opens my mouth very wide and bursts into tears as she tells me that all my teeth are rotten but that it’s not worth treating them.
My mouth, open wide, is immense.
I have an almost palpable sensation of total rot.
My mouth is so large, and the dentist so small, that I suspect she is going to put her whole head in my mouth.
Later, I run through the shopping mall.
I buy a three-burner gas stove that costs 26,000 francs and a 103-liter refrigerator.
No.
6  January 1969      Farewell   One day, I will tell her I am leaving her.
She will call her daughter nearly immediately to say she is not going to Dampierre.
Over the course of the telephone conversation, her pretty face will fall apart.
No.
7  January 1969      On my old days   Despite your certainty that you are still young, you must not be so young anymore, since two of your dearest friends are already dead and a third is dying …   It was like those Flaubert letters: “We have buried Jules …” (or is it Edmond?).
Who were those two dead friends?
Wasn’t one of them Claude?
Régis?
No.
8  September 1969      In the métro   After what might have been countless adventures, I manage to board the train just as it’s preparing to leave, as the dull black automatic doors are already closing.
The compartment is long and narrow, almost empty.
There is only an immensely tall woman on the other side of the car, lying over several seats—not across a row but down the length of the car, her feet roughly where I am and her head almost at the other end of the compartment.
(Suddenly) I feel something (someone) gently running (a hand) through my hair.
I am frightened.
I shout.
It is certainly not the woman, who seems even more than I am.
No.
9  September 1969      Sinusitis   I spoke with a doctor for a long time about my sinus infections.
No.
10  October 1969      Writers   In a store, or rather at a large carnival, something like the Fête de l’Humanité.
There is a large crowd.
We arrange to meet in one place and then another.
I step out “to be introduced to some Soviet writers.” They greet me but then, to my great disappointment, nobody pays me any attention; everyone is listening to Armand Lanoux nearly immediately to say she is not going to Dampierre (I have never seen him before; he looks nothing like I imagined he would), who is speaking in Russian (which I understand without the slightest difficulty) about his ten books that have been translated in the USSR.
I am shocked by the number ten, and I mentally correct it to something like “ten times the same thing”   I belong to a group of hippies.
We stop traffic on a national highway.
We have surrounded a luxury car and are closing in on it, threateningly.
No.
11  October 1969      The death of Helmlé   I receive a letter from Germany in which I learn that Eugen Helmlé is dead.
I had written to him the night before.
Bit by bit, I understand that I am dreaming and that Eugen Helmlé is not dead.
No.
12  October 1969      Go   I am playing Go (though it’s more like a puzzle whose pieces finally form a sort of sphere) with a writer named Bourgoin, whom I find fairly unpleasant.
I am on rue de l’Assomption and I decide to go to Dampierre.
I head toward a café at the end of the street, then veer off in the direction of la Muette.
I am furious.
Maybe it’s in Dampierre, or still on rue de l’Assomption?
The place is under repair, even though they’re holding a reception, whence the presence—rather surprising at first—of workers in the middle of the sitting room.
A writer enters; I realize I have his book in my hand and am playing (fanning myself?)
with it.
J. and M.L.
appear to have made up and are playing Go together.
A bit later I walk in on them kissing in a dusty room, which looks like my old office on rue du Bac.
A workman comes to tear out the doorpost, saying, in a very technical manner:   “It has beveled edges.”  The post carries electrical wires, so there is a brief blackout.
I remark to myself that he is an excellent electrician and that it will be easier to remove the furniture this way.
Three workers (one of whom is the gardener from Dampierre) are building an outdoor living room.
I have a scene with      No.
13  February 1970      The hotel   I am looking to rent an apartment for a month.
Someone whose job is to sell or rent apartments suggests that I go to a hotel instead, and recommends La Boule Blanche, in the middle of Saint-Germain.
As it turns out, I know that hotel by name, but I’ve never been there.
La Boule Blanche is on a very calm square, not unlike the Square Louis-Jouvet, near the Opera (where the Cintra bar is).
It reminds me of another hotel, not far off, where one of my friends either went or told P. (or maybe me) to go.
A rather fin-de-siècle congress is being held in the hotel.
The reading rooms are packed, the tables strewn with outspread newspapers.
I turn around in a circle, looking for the hotel office, and end up asking someone, who tells me:  “But it’s right there.”   It is, in fact, right there.
It looks a bit like my writing desk, but curved.
Three young women are behind it.
They whisper to me that there have been many departures and that I will have no trouble getting a room.
Just now, three or four gentlemen are returning their keys.
I want to ask for a room, but by mistake I ask for a suite.
They ask me why.
I explain that I am in the middle of changing apartments and that I wish to move in for a month.
Two of the three employees talk amongst themselves and decide to show me the bridal suite.
It’s at the very top of the hotel.
We take the stairs up.
In the small entryway there is a carved lamp whose base represents a headless naked woman gripping or strangling a boa constrictor coiled around her.
The woman and the snake are made of wood, but the imitation is so perfect that you could believe, for a moment, that they are alive.
I tour the suite, which consists of two rooms connected by a small staircase.
I try to explain that a room, a large room, would be fine for me.
Then, changing the subject, I ask what brands of whiskey they have at the bar.
They answer with a certain number of words (“long john,” “glen,” “mac,” etc.)
and then the word “Chivas,” which they repeat several times until it loses its shape (chavass, chivelle, etc.).
Then I ask what they have in the way of vodka.
They answer with a word that ends in “ya”: I hear “Denitskaya” or “Baltiskaya.” I am pleased that it is an authentic vodka …      No.
14  February 1970      Ski-hunting   A film that I am (a) watching as it is being filmed, (b) seeing in the theater, or (c) acting in.
Somewhere in the forest.
Hunting scene.
We are in the middle of the woods.
Maybe there is snow.
The hunters curse the poachers, who are always a few steps ahead, hunting their game and thinning its population.
The shot moves (pan, lateral).
I am very far off-screen.
Four forms pass, hairy, bearded, covered in furs: the poachers.
Then, on skis, the “Lead Hunter,” then the cameraman, who is carrying a ridiculous contraption on his back, then the sound engineer, also heavily loaded, then, etc., the rest of the crew.
They are walking backwards, on skis, bringing in the poachers.
Close-up of their skis, which look quite strange, like they have heels.
Among the smugglers, an old Jewish woman, very ugly, extremely unpleasant (like an anti-Semitic caricature).
She is wearing an expensive fur coat.
I speak to her as we return to the village; in principle, she could take part in a real hunt (and even have her own), but she prefers to hunt other people’s game.
I tell her she is at risk of being pursued and of seeing her name dishonored.
The rest is confused: we speak of slander, of fines.
The scandal must be kept quiet.
No.
15  May 1970      La rue de Quatrefages   P. and I are living in the building on rue de Quatrefages, at the very back of the yard, no longer on the fifth floor but on the ground floor.
We are living separately, which is to say we have separated our apartment in two.
After some complicated construction, we even end up sharing the apartment with our neighbor.
I am touring the apartment.
The first two rooms are familiar; it’s basically our old apartment on rue de Quatrefages.
Then you come to a curious part: a bizarrely furnished kitchen.
There is a tiny ceramic basin (a “scullery sink”) whose faucet is open over a covered casserole pot (a “hot-dish”) larger than the sink (which can suggest only imminent overflow …); above the sink, there is an immense glass fume hood (a “sorbonne”); it’s glass but it’s barely clear, more like “bumpy” (fluted?)
glass; also notable: the hood is completely detached from the wall, the length of which is lined with water and gas pipes, and actually has to be suspended from the ceiling.
There is also a gas cooker with plates simmering on it.
Past the kitchen is a large bathroom with a trapezoidal bathtub.
Then a hallway and, at the very end, a somewhat worm-eaten wooden door.
This is how I discover, for the first time in my life, that my apartment has two doors; I vaguely suspected as much, but I (finally?)
have tangible proof.
I open the door.
Immediately the three cats who live in the apartment run out.
There is one white cat and two grey cats, one of which is certainly my cat.
No big deal, they’ll definitely be back; obviously it’s through this door, and not the other, that P. usually lets them out.
I look through the keyhole (which is round and eye-sized).
I see the avenue, wide, lined with trees and a few stores, including a restaurant.
P. is asleep in the apartment.
She has found only one of the cats.
He was on rue Mortimer.
I realize, first of all, that the first room of the apartment belongs jointly to P. and to the neighbor, and, second, that this is not my apartment, that I have never lived here.
In the first room, the neighbor’s section and P.’s are separated by a heap of books.
The neighbor, a fairly old and rather boorish woman, can no longer tell which of these books she has borrowed from P., nor which she has finished reading and wishes to return.
She hands me a very pretty book, a bit like the Hetzel editions of Jules Verne.
I quiver with joy: the title of the book is      LUNGS     It’s an extremely rare book, a classic of respiratory physiology that I remember hearing G. mention.
I open it.
It is written in German (in Gothic characters).
I recognize, in the heap of books, many familiar volumes (the Queneau-Massin-Carelman edition of Exercises in Style, books by Steinberg, etc.).
The neighbor’s husband arrives.
He is an old, tired man.
He has no mustache.
Or, rather, he has one.
He looks a bit like the actor André Julien, or maybe like André R., the father of one of my old classmates.
In his hand is a case shaped like a large ballpoint pen, which is full either of many ballpoint pens or of one enormous pen with—let’s say—twelve colors.
He nods, looking displeased.
Later: I am lying on a bed, next to the pile of books.
In front of me, to my left, P. is spread out on another bed, perpendicular to mine.
In front of P.’s bed, across from me, there is a long table with the husband sitting behind it (just across from me) and (on my right) the neighbor, who has a tiny electric battery in front of her.
Long before, P. and I were in the street.
We were wandering in a lovely park, as pretty as the Jardin des Missions Étrangères on rue de Varenne.
No.
16  July 1970      The arrest   I am in Tunis.
It is a vertically sprawling city.
I’m on a very long walk: winding roads, lines of trees, fences, panoramas.
It’s as if the whole landscape turned out to be the background of an Italian painting.
The next day, the police come to arrest me.
Long ago I committed a minor infraction.
I no longer have any memory of it, but I know that today it could cost me twenty years.
I flee, armed with a revolver.
The places I pass through are unfamiliar.
There is no immediate danger, but I know already that my flight won’t solve anything.
I go back to places I know, where I had been walking the previous night.
Three sailors ask me for directions.
Behind a line of trees, women in veils wash laundry.
I return to town on a winding road.
There are cops everywhere, hundreds of them.
They’re stopping everyone and searching vehicles.
I pass between the cops.
As long as I don’t make eye contact, I have a chance of making it out.
I go into a café, where I find Marcel B. I sit down near him.
Three men enter the café (cops, obviously!
); they make a halfhearted search of the room.
Maybe they haven’t seen me?
I almost breathe a sigh of relief, but one of them comes and sits down at my table.
“I don’t have my papers on me,” I say.
He is about to stand and leave (which would mean I’m saved), but he says to me in a low voice:  “Copulate!”  I don’t understand.
He writes the word in the margin of a newspaper, in huge bubble letters:    then he goes back over the first three letters, filling them in:     Eventually I get his drift.
It’s extremely complicated: I am to go home and “have marital relations with my wife” so that, when the police come for me, the fact of “copulating” on a Sunday will constitute for me, being Jewish, an aggravating circumstance.
My being Jewish is, of course, at the root of this whole affair and complicates it considerably.
My arrest is a consequence of the Judeo-Arab conflict and affirming my pro-Palestinian sentiments will do me no good.
I return to my villa (which might be just a single room).
Most of all I want to know whether I will be a Tunisian prisoner in France or a French prisoner in Tunisia.
Either way, I anticipate an amnesty during a visit from a head of state.
I feel innocent.
What bothers me most is having to go for several years without being able to change my dirty socks.
No.
17  July 1970      The switch   “One fine morning,” I am once again in a concentration camp.
It’s time to get up; the challenge is to find clothes (I am dressed in everyday attire, tweed jacket, English shoes).
In the camp, everything is for sale.
I see rolls of large bills in circulation.
The guardians give potions to the detainees.
Someone finds me a jacket.
We line up to go down (we’re in a large dormitory on the second floor of a sort of repurposed barrack).
We hide for a moment in a hallway.
We walk in quadruple file.
An officer lines us up with a long bamboo switch.
He is kind at first, then suddenly he begins to insult us horribly.
In line for roll call.
The officer is still shouting but not striking anyone.
At one point, each of us (he and I) is holding an end of the switch; I am overcome with panic at the prospect of him hitting me.
The universe of the camp is unbroken: nothing can be done to affect it.
Later, I burst into tears while passing a tent where children with an incurable disease are being treated.
Their only chance of survival is here.
I wonder if this survival doesn’t consist in their being turned into pills, which reminds me of an anecdote about dieting cures that work because the dieters are told to ingest pills that actually contain a tapeworm.
No.
18  August 1970      Vergelesses   I am with her at a restaurant.
I look at a menu that is very extensive but contains only dishes that are both dull and overpriced (for instance, a hot dog with fries for twelve francs).
I consult the wine list and suggest that we order “vergelesses.”      No.
19  August 1970      The roll of bills   An American-style comedy.
It’s one of those stories we’ve all heard before, and where we already know what happens next.
There’s a whole group of us.
The police arrest us once, then a second time (but they have to let us go) and a third time, when the impunity we were hoping for no longer works.
Finally, the Chief of Police sets us free and gives us back our money.
Three famous actors, wrinkled like old Western heroes (Stewart, Fonda, etc.)
are seated at a table, smiling as they handle thick rolls of dollars.
Wide shot: a roll of blue and yellow bills, differing only by the digit: $500, $500, $100, etc., a long stretch of $1 bills in the middle, then back to large denominations.
In the meantime, I learn that I’m going to be a father, then that I am: the child was born, I wasn’t even told.
I walk down a long hallway, trying to think of a suitable name: it needs to be very short (like Jorg’) or very long.
Didier, for instance, would not work.
It’s a girl.
Her name is something like Didière or Denise.
She has very skinny legs with socks and little white shoes.
She seems rather unhappy to see me.
While kissing her, I happen to tear off a tiny piece of her tongue in development (flesh not yet fully firm).
I worry that this will harm her growth.
It’s not my wife who is looking after the girl but rather a friend of hers.
No.
20  August 1970      C.      Weekend in Dampierre.
C. and one of his friends arrive.
I talk to him about a project for a television adaptation of The Raise.
Someone else proposed a similar project to me recently.
C. tells me he’s the one behind the project, that he had talked about it to (neither one of us manages to remember the name).
(I don’t remember anything else when I wake up, but all of this seems so logical that I remain convinced that the scene is plausible, even real).
No.
21  September 1970      S/Z   I go back to that bookstore where the books, most of them used, are stacked, or rather heaped, in a corner.
I’m looking for a particular book, but the bookseller says she doesn’t have it.
Z. and I browse a few other titles.
I find a book; I recognize the name of the author, but nothing more; it’s a huge collection, or dictionary, of S/Z variations in the works of Balzac.
Each page has four columns:      The “attested term” and “use reference” columns give explanations, the “S” and “Z” columns indicate all the transformed words.
Thus:      (Maissé is the name of a character, and Maizsé, which at first I do not understand, is—of course!
how could I forget?—the name of a village in Poland.)
This goes on for pages and pages.
Each term, or rather each pair, is so evident that it seems odd that it didn’t occur to anybody earlier, shocking that we had to wait for Roland Barthes to notice it.
Leafing backward through the book, Z. shows me a series of epigraphs (in red?)
at the beginning of a chapter.
The first says something like “Perec gives up his letters”; it’s an excerpt from an article about A Void, but I can’t find the name of the author or the name of the newspaper; I am quite pleased with it, as if this quotation were a sign of recognition (of being taken seriously).
The author of the book is a woman and I remember having read one of her novels.
No.
22  August 1970      Initials   Two of my old friends (let’s say one is Pierre B., whom I have not seen in ten years are in Dampierre.
A third—he has the same name as a manager whom I hear about sometimes but have never seen—may have been arrested.
Someone asks if he is G.P.
No, I exclaim.
Maoist or P.C., then.
I take that to mean P.C.F.
and remark: that’s not the same thing, though!
But the other one specifies: P.C.M.L.F.
Most of the terms in this dream are like crossword clues.
No.
23  September 1970      To the South   When I wake up, only one word remains:      Marseilles     We were heading South.
We had already been there, but we were coming from another town.
No.
24  September 1970      Cats   After various perambulations, I am back in the building on rue de Quatrefages (or is it rue des Boulangers?
or rue de Seine?).
I’m going from the back room to the front.
Denis B. is there (or is it Michaud?).
On the ground, cats.
At least three.
Tiny little balls of fur.
I shout: I said loud and clear that I won’t have that a cat here!
I take one of the cats, walk to the door, and toss it out.
Then I notice that between the floor and the door there’s a space large enough for a small cat to enter.
Anyway, the whole house is an utter mess.
The downstairs neighbor has a gigantic chimney in his house.
He makes a fire and my room burns.
Beneath the ashes of the floorboards you can see pieces of masonry and bits of iron from the frame.
My friend asks with dismay what we’re going to do.
But I’m not in the least bit disturbed and I calmly go down the list of things that need to be done.
No.
25  September 1970      Two plays   I am to be in two plays.
A recent walk-on part revealed my acting talent and I was cast on the spot.
At the moment I’m supposed to enter, I realize that I haven’t rehearsed, nor even read my part once.
The scene takes place in a large hall-cafeteria-dormitory-canteen.
The actors are seated at a table.
I take the remaining empty seat, right at the front of the stage.
I’m playing a tramp.
On the table is a piece of paper with some lines on it, but an actor next to me (who is also the director) leans over and whispers that it’s not my part.
I am stricken with unease.
A bit later, though, someone manages to pass me a sheet (of something like butcher paper) with a few notes from the script.
I have to make do with winks from my partners to know when it’s my turn to speak.
The play begins.
I am lost.
I’m sure I’m saying the wrong thing at the wrong moment.
Happily, the author has written a very disjointed play, a hullabaloo.
After quite a while of considerable discomfort (I’m ruining everyone else’s work), riot police arrive in the back of the auditorium.
It’s part of the play.
Great confusion.
On to the second play.
It’s an act with three characters.
I am playing the bear (or maybe the devil?)
and across from me are either Faust and Marguerite or Don Juan and Faustine.
Someone brings me fur for my costume.
I’m not worrying much about my lines; my part consists chiefly of grunts.
I learn that the role was in fact written for Roger Blin, who’s supposed to take over for me after this performance, and I find it hilarious to “create a role for Blin to reprise.”   The first play, was it actually a rehearsal?
In any case, the second is not performed.
No.
26  October 1970      The S-shaped bar   I am with Pierre G. in my room.
My bed is covered in plastic foam cubes wrapped in transparent plastic casings.
Good thing, because water is dripping from the walls and ceiling.
For that matter, it’s as though the walls and ceiling are just a single network of multicolored tubes.
Everything is soaked.
Pierre explains that the people upstairs are having their bathtub redone (refitted).
There is a table next to the bed and on the table a telephone off its hook.
I sense that if I hang it up, it will begin to ring (actually, maybe it’s even ringing now, even though it’s off the hook).
I hang up; nothing happens.
Later, Pierre and I are in a large drugstore.
At one point I find myself alone in the book aisle.
All the books are shelved flat and covered in pale-colored jackets (mauve, blue, light grey, rose, lavender, etc.).
I realize that they’re all erotic books.
The titles are mostly quite short, usually just a female first name (Fabienne, Irene).
I don’t recognize the authors’ names (pseudonyms, no doubt).
Pierre and I come to a huge room where we think we can get something to eat or drink.
But the maitre d’ directs us to a bar farther down, on the other side of a large picture window.
We each take a glass.
One is a tapered whiskey tumbler, the other a handsome stemmed glass with an egg-shaped swelling near the base.
On the other side of the window, another large room with a staircase leading up to the restaurant.
The maître d’ points us to it, but we only want drinks, and he leads us to the bar.
The bar is very long.
It is shaped like an S. On the other side of the counter, several large young men, athletic types with crew cuts, are playing dice on a round tray that they seem to be supporting on their knees.
The bartender hands us drinks.
Someone asks if the dice players are from the university, but they respond by shaking their heads no and they seem to find the suggestion very amusing.
No.
27  October 1970      Change   I’m supposed to fly to Venice, and later go to Toulouse to pay my taxes.
Tricky money-changing issues.
By going through Italy I save a great deal of money.
But obviously I can’t declare it.
Great confusion.
I am carrying a check (for 5,000, 30,000, or 50,000 francs) and a single 500-franc bill.
I’m supposed to pay 6,000 francs, which seems exorbitant to me.
Moreover, I realize that, although it’s Thursday, I can only be in Italy on Saturday and all the banks will be closed.
I should have left the same night.
All of this is happening in transit from counter to counter, in the cosmopolitan atmosphere of a major airport.
I realize that this trip is completely useless in any case, since this banking operation could have been done a bit later during my trip to Germany.
No.
28  October 1970 (Neuweiler)      The epidemic   The dreamer (this whole story is like a novel in the third person) has sat down at a little bistro.
He is foreign, but they quickly come to treat him like a regular.
The boss and some of the customers are discussing the epidemic.
The Chinese cook of the restaurant enters (the dreamer thinks he looks like someone he knows); the Chinese cook says they need to find a replacement for him, because he can no longer continue to man the stoves and cook for the girls.
On this note he cites a Shakespearean proverb:   “They died not all, but all were sick!”   Stunned, the owner of the café looks at the dreamer: he’s the one who taught him the proverb.
At that instant the dreamer understands that he is no longer a stranger at some table and that he is now the “central character”; at the same time, he recognizes the Chinese cook; he knows only him; he’s the one who comes from time to time to volunteer for the girls.
There has been a great cholera epidemic.
Everyone wants to be examined.
The symptom is spitting up blood.
The dreamer and two of his friends walk around the town.
They arrive in front of a stairway blocked by a mass of young girls, surely a boarding school.
