the professor cried.
I like that.
I see the idea.
I see what you mean.
DAMES DONATE DUBLIN’S CITS SPEEDPILLS VELOCITOUS AEROLITHS, BELIEF   —It gives them a crick in their necks, Stephen said, and they are too tired to look up or down or to speak.
They put the bag of plums between them and eat the plums out of it one after another, wiping off with their handkerchiefs the plumjuice that dribbles out of their mouths and spitting the plumstones slowly out between the railings.
He gave a sudden loud young laugh as a close.
Lenehan and Mr O’Madden Burke, hearing, turned, beckoned and led on across towards Mooney’s.
—Finished?
Myles Crawford said.
So long as they do no worse.
SOPHIST WALLOPS HAUGHTY HELEN SQUARE ON   PROBOSCIS.
SPARTANS GNASH MOLARS.
ITHACANS   VOW PEN IS CHAMP   —You remind me of Antisthenes, the professor said, a disciple of Gorgias, the sophist.
It is said of him that none could tell if he were bitterer against others or against himself.
He was the son of a noble and a bond- woman.
And he wrote a book in which he took away the palm of beauty from Argive Helen and handed it to poor Penelope.
Poor Penelope.
Penelope Rich.
They made ready to cross O’Connell street.
HELLO THERE, CENTRAL!
At various points along the eight lines tramcars with motionless trolleys stood in their tracks, bound for or from Rathmines, Rathfarnham, Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Sandymount Green, Ringsend and Sandy- mount Tower, Donnybrook, Palmerston Park and Upper Rathmines, all still, becalmed in short circuit.
Hackney cars, cabs, delivery waggons, mail-vans, private broughams, aerated mineral water floats with rattling crates of bottles, rattled, lolled, horsedrawn, rapidly.
WHAT?—AND LIKEWISE—WHERE?
—But what do you call it?
Myles Crawford asked.
Where did they get the plums?
VIRGILIAN, SAYS PEDAGOGUE.
SOPHOMORE PLUMPS FOR OLD MAN MOSES   —Call it, wait, the professor said, opening his long lips wide to reflect.
Call it, let me see.
Call it: deus nobis hcec otia fecit.
—No, Stephen said, I call it A Pisgah Sight of Palestine or the Parable of the Plums.
—I see, the professor said.
He laughed richly.
—I see, he said again with new pleasure.
Moses and the promised land.
We gave him that idea, he added to J. J. O’Molloy.
HORATIO IS CYNOSURE THIS FAIR JUNE DAY   J. J. O’Molloy sent a weary sidelong glance towards the statue and held his peace.
—I see, the professor said.
He halted on sir John Gray’s pavement island and peered aloft at Nelson through the meshes of his wry smile.
DIMINISHED DIGITS PROVE TOO TITILLATING   FOR FRISKY FRUMPS.
ANNE WIMBLES, FLO   WANGLES—YET CAN YOU BLAME THEM?
—Onehandled adulterer, he said grimly.
That tickles me I must say.
—Tickled the old ones too, Myles Crawford said, if the God Almighty’s truth was known.
PINEAPPLE ROCK, lemon platt, butter scotch.
A sugarsticky girl shovelling scoopfuls of creams for a Christian brother.
Some school treat.
Bad for their tummies.
Lozenge and comfit manufacturer to His Majesty the King.
God.
Save.
Our.
Sitting on his throne, sucking red jujubes white.
A sombre Y. M. C. A. young man, watchful among the warm sweet fumes of Graham Lemon’s, placed a throwaway in a hand of Mr Bloom.
Heart to heart talks.
Bloo…Me?
No.
Blood of the Lamb.
His slow feet walked him riverward, reading.
Are you saved?
All are washed in the blood of the lamb.
God wants blood victim.
Birth, hymen, martyr, war, found- ation of a building, sacrifice, kidney burntoffering, druid’s altars.
Elijah is coming.
Dr John Alexander Dowie, restorer of the church in Zion, is coming.
Is coming !
Is coming !
!
Is coming !
!
!
All heartily welcome.
Paying game.
Torry and Alexander last year.
Poly- gamy.
His wife will put the stopper on that.
Where was that ad some Birmingham firm the luminous crucifix?
Our Saviour.
Wake up in the dead of night and see him on the wall, hanging.
Pepper’s ghost idea.
Iron nails ran in.
Phosphorus it must be done with.
If you leave a bit of codfish for instance.
I could see the bluey silver over it.
Night I went down to the pantry in the kitchen.
Don’t like all the smells in it waiting to rush out.
What was it she wanted?
The Malaga raisins.
Thinking of Spain.
Before Rudy was born.
The phosphorescence, that bluey greeny.
Very good for the brain.
From Butler’s monument house corner he glanced along Bachelor’s walk.
Dedalus’ daughter there still outside Dillon’s auctionrooms.
Must be selling off some old furniture.
Knew her eyes at once from the father.
Lobbing about waiting for him.
Home always breaks up when the mother goes.
Fifteen children he had.
Birth every year almost.
That’s in their theology or the priest won’t give the poor woman the confession, the absolution.
Increase and multiply.
Did you ever hear such an idea?
Eat you out of house and home.
No families themselves to feed.
Living on the fat of the land.
Their butteries and larders.
I’d like to see them do the black fast Yom Kippur.
Crossbuns.
One meal and a collation for fear he’d collapse on the altar.
A house- keeper of one of those fellows if you could pick it out of her.
Never pick it out of her.
Like getting L. s. d. out of him.
Does himself well.
No guests.
All for number one.
Watching his water.
Bring your own bread and butter.
His reverence.
Mum’s the word.
Good Lord, that poor child’s dress is in flitters.
Underfed she looks too.
Potatoes and marge, marge and potatoes.
It’s after they feel it.
Proof of the pudding.
Undermines the constitution.
As he set foot on O’Connell bridge a puffball of smoke plumed up from the parapet.
Brewery barge with export stout.
England.
Sea air sours it, I heard.
Be interesting some day get a pass through Hancock to see the brewery.
Regular world in itself.
Vats of porter, wonderful.
Rats get in too.
Drink themselves bloated as big as a collie floating.
Dead drunk on the porter.
Drink till they puke again like christians.
Imagine drinking that!
Rats: vats.
Well of course if we knew all the things.
Looking down he saw flapping strongly, wheeling between the gaunt quay walls, gulls.
Rough weather outside.
If I threw myself down?
Reuben J’s son must have swallowed a good bellyful of that sewage.
One and eightpence too much.
Hhhhm.
It’s the droll way he comes out with the things.
Knows how to tell a story too.
They wheeled lower.
Looking for grub.
Wait.
He threw down among them a crumpled paper ball.
Elijah thirtytwo feet per sec is com.
Not a bit.
The ball bobbed unheeded on the wake of swells, floated under by the bridge piers.
Not such damn fools.
Also the day I threw that stale cake out of the Erin’s King picked it up in the wake fifty yards astern.
Live by their wits.
They wheeled, flapping.
The hungry famished gull  Flaps o’er the waters dull.
That is how poets write, the similar sounds.
But then Shakespeare has no rhymes: blank verse.
The flow of the language it is.
The thoughts.
Solemn.
Hamlet, I am thy father’s spirit  Doomed for a certain time to walk the earth.
—Two apples a penny!
Two for a penny!
His gaze passed over the glazed apples serried on her stand.
Australians they must be this time of year.
Shiny peels: polishes them up with a rag or a handker- chief.
Wait.
Those poor birds.
He halted again and bought from the old apple- woman two Banbury cakes for a penny and broke the brittle paste and threw its fragments down into the Liffey.
See that?
The gulls swooped silently two, then all, from their heights, pouncing on prey.
Gone.
Every morsel.
Aware of their greed and cunning he shook the pow- dery crumb from his hands.
They never expected that.
Manna.
Live on fishy flesh they have to, all sea birds, gulls, seagoose.
Swans from Anna Liffey swim down here sometimes to preen themselves.
No accounting for tastes.
Wonder what kind is swanmeat.
Robinson Crusoe had to live on them.
They wheeled, flapping weakly.
I’m not going to throw any more.
Penny quite enough.
Lot of thanks I get.
Not even a caw.
They spread foot and mouth disease too.
If you cram a turkey, say, on chestnut meal it tastes like that.
Eat pig like pig.
But then why is it that saltwater fish are not salty?
How is that?
His eyes sought answer from the river and saw a rowboat rock at anchor on the treacly swells lazily its plastered board.
Kino’s  II/-  Trousers.
Good idea that.
Wonder if he pays rent to the corpo- ration.
How can you own water really?
It’s always flowing in a stream, never the same, which in the stream of life we trace.
Because life is a stream.
All kind of places are good for ads.
That quack doctor for the clap used to be stuck up in all the greenhouses.
Never see it now.
Strictly confidential.
Dr Hy Franks.
Didn’t cost him a red like Maginni the dancing master self advertisement.
Got fellows to stick them up or stick them up himself for that matter on the q. t. running in to loosen a button.
Fly by night.
Just the place too.
POST NO BILLS.
POST IIO PILLS.
Some chap with a dose burning him.
If he…  O!
Eh?
No .. No.
No, no.
I don’t believe it.
He wouldn’t surely?
No, no.
Mr Bloom moved forward raising his troubled eyes.
Think no more about that.
After one.
Timeball on the ballast office is down.
Dunsink time.
Fascinating little book that is of sir Robert Ball’s.
Parallax.
I never exactly understood.
There’s a priest.
Could ask him.
Par it’s Greek: parallel, parallax.
Met him pikehoses she called it till I told her about the transmigration.
O rocks!
Air Bloom smiled O rocks at two windows of the ballast office.
She’s right after all.
Only big words for ordinary things on account of the sound.
She’s not exactly witty.
Can be rude too.
Blurt out what I was thinking.
Still I don’t know.
She used to say Ben Bollard had a base barreltone voice.
He has legs like barrels and you’d think he was singing into a barrel.
Now, isn’t that wit?
They used to call him big Ben.
Not half as witty as calling him base barreltone.
Appetite like an albatross.
Get outside of a baron of beef.
Powerful man he was at storing away number one Bass.
Barrel of Bass.
See?
it all works out.
A procession of whitesmocked men marched slowly towards him along the gutter, scarlet sashes across their boards.
Bargains.
Like that priest they are this morning: we have sinned: we have suffered.
He read the scarlet letters on their five tall white hats: H. E. L. Y. S. Wisdom Hely’s.
Y lagging behind drew a chunk of bread from under his foreboard, crammed it into his mouth and munched as he walked.
Our staple food.
Three bob a day, walking along the gutters, street after street.
Just keep skin and bone together, bread and skilly.
They are not Boyl: no: M‘Glade’s men.
Doesn’tbring in any business either.
I suggested to him about a transparent show cart with two smart girls sitting inside writing letters, copybooks, envelopes, blotting paper.
I bet that would have caught on.
Smart girls writing something catch the eye at once.
Everyone dying to know what she’s writing.
Get twenty of them round you if you stare at nothing.
Have a finger in the pie.
Women too.
Curiosity.
Pillar of salt.
Wouldn’t have it of course because he didn’t think of it himself first.
Or the inkbottle I suggested with a false stain of black celluloid.
His ideas for ads like Plumtree’s potted under the obituaries, cold meat department.
You can’t lick’em.
What?
Our envelopes.
Hello!
Jones, where are you going?
Can’t stop, Robinson, I am hastening to purchase the only reliable inkeraser Kansell, sold by Hely’s Ltd, 85 Dame Street.
Well out of that ruck I am.
Devil of a job it was collecting accounts of those convents.
Tran- quilla convent.
That was a nice nun there, really sweet face.
Wimple suited her small head.
Sister?
Sister?
I am sure she was crossed in love by her eyes.
Very hard to bargain with that sort of woman.
I disturbed her at her devotions that morning.
But glad to communicate with the outside world.
Our great day, she said.
Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel.
Sweet name too: caramel.
She knew, I think she knew by the way she.
If she had married she would have changed.
I suppose they really were short of money.
Fried everything in the best butter all the same.
No lard for them.
My heart’s broke eating dripping.
They like buttering them- selves in and out.
Molly tasting it, her veil up.
Sister?
Pat Claffey, the pawnbroker’s daughter.
It was a nun they say invented barbed wire.
He crossed Westmoreland street when apostrophe S had plodded by.
Rover cycleshop.
Those races are ontoday.
How long ago is that?
Year Phil Gilligan died.
We were in Lombard street west.
Wait, was in Thorn’s.
Got the job in Wisdom Hely’s year we married.
Six years.
Ten years ago: ninetyfour he died, yes that’s right, the big fire at Arnott’s.
Val Dillon was lord mayor.
The Glencree dinner.
Alderman Robert O’Reilly emptying the port into his soup before the flag fell, Bobbob lapping it for the inner alderman.
Couldn’t hear what the band played.
For what we have already received may the Lord make us.
Milly was a kiddy then.
Molly had that elephantgrey dress with the braided frogs.
Mantailored with selfcovered buttons.
She didn’t like it because I sprained my ankle first day she wore choir picnic at the Sugarloaf.
As if that.
Old Goodwin’s tall hat done up with some sticky stuff.
Flies’ picnic too.
Never put a dress on her back like it.
Fitted her like a glove, shoulder and hips.
Just beginning to plump it out well.
Rabbit pie we had that day.
People looking after her.
Happy.
Happier then.
Snug little room that was with the red wallpaper, Dockrell’s, one and ninepence a dozen.
Milly’s tubbing night.
American soap I bought: elderflower.
Cosy smell of her bathwater.
Funny she looked soaped all over.
Shapely too.
Now photography.
Poor papa’s daguerreotype atelier he told me of.
Hereditary taste.
He walked along the curbstone.
Stream of We.
What was the name of that priesty- looking chap was always squinting in when he passed?
Weak eyes, woman.
Stopped in Citron’s saint Kevin’s parade.
Pen something.
Pendennis?
My memory is getting.
Pen…?
Of course it’s years ago.
Noise of die trams probably.
Well, if he couldn’t remember the dayfather’s name that he sees every day.
Bartell d’Arcy was the tenor, just coming out then.
Seeing her home after practice.
Conceited fellow with his waxedup moustache.
Gave her that song Winds that blow from the south.
Windy night that was I went to fetch her there was that lodge meeting on about those lottery tickets after Goodwin’s concert in the supper room or oakroom of the mansion house.
He and I behind.
Sheet of her music blew out of my hand against the high school railings.
Lucky it didn’t.
Thing like that spoils the effect of a night for her.
Professor Goodwin Unking her in front.
Shaky on his pins, poor old sot.
His farewell concerts.
Positively last appearance on any stage.
May be for months and may be for never.
Remember her laughing at the wind, her blizzard collar up.
Corner of Harcourt road remember that gust?
Brrfoo!
Blew up all her skirts and her boa nearly smothered old Goodwin.
She did get flushed in the wind.
Remember when we got home raking up the fire and frying up those pieces of lap of mutton for her supper with the Chutney sauce she liked.
And the mulled rum.
Could see her in the bedroom from the hearth unclamping the busk of her stays.
White.
Swish and soft flop her stays made on the bed.
Always warm from her.
Always liked to let herself out.
Sitting there after till near two, taking out her hairpins.
Milly tucked up in beddyhouse.
Happy.
Happy.
That was the night…  —O, Mr Bloom, how do you do?
—O, how do you do, Mrs Breen?
—No use complaining.
How is Molly those times?
Haven’t seen her for ages.
—In the pink, Mr Bloom said gaily, Milly has a position down in Mullingar, you know.
—Go away!
Isn’t that grand for her?
—Yes, in a photographer’s there.
Getting on like a house on fire.
How are all your charges?
—All on the baker’s list, Mrs Breen said.
How many has she?
