Voglio e non vorrei.
Wonder if she pronounces that right: voglio.
Not in the bed.
Must have slid down.
He stooped and lifted the valance.
The book, fallen, sprawled against the bulge of the orange-keyed chamberpot.
—Show here, she said.
I put a mark in it.
There’s a word I wanted to ask you.
She swallowed a draught of tea from her cup held by nothandle and, having wiped her fingertips smartly on the blanket, began to search the text with the hairpin till she reached the word.
—Met him what?
he asked.
—Here, she said.
What does that mean?
He leaned downwards and read near her polished thumbnail.
—Metempsychosis?
—Yes.
Who’s he when he’s at home?
—Metempsychosis, he said, frowning.
It’s Greek: from the Greek.
That means the transmigration of souls.
—O, rocks!
she said.
Tell us in plain words.
He smiled, glancing askance at her mocking eye.
The same young eyes.
The first night after the charades.
Dolphin’s Barn.
He turned over the smudged pages.
Ruby: the Pride of the Ring.
Hello.
Illustration.
Fierce Italian with carriagewhip.
Must be Ruby pride of the on the floor naked.
Sheet kindly lent.
The monster Maffei desisted and flung his victim from him with an oath.
Cruelty behind it all.
Doped animals.
Trapeze at Hengler’s.
Had to look the other way.
Mob gaping.
Break your neck and we’ll break our sides.
Families of them.
Bone them young so they metempsychosis.
That we live after death.
Our souls.
That a man’s soul after he dies.
Dignam’s soul…  —Did you finish it?
he asked.
—Yes, she said.
There’s nothing smutty in it.
Is she in love with the first fellow all the time?
—Never read it.
Do you want another?
—Yes.
Get another of Paul de Kock’s.
Nice name he has.
She poured more tea into her cup, watching its flow sideways.
Must get that Capel street library book renewed or they’ll write to Kearney, my guarantor.
Reincarnation: that’s the word.
—Some people believe, he said, that we go on living in another body after death, that we lived before.
They call it reincarnation.
That we all lived before on the earth thousands of years ago or some other planet.
They say we have forgotten it.
Some say they remember their past lives.
The sluggish cream wound curdling spirals through her tea.
Better remind her of the word: metempsychosis.
An example would be better.
An example.
The Bath of the Nymph over the bed.
Given away with the Easter number of Photo Bits: Splendid masterpiece in art colours.
Tea before you put milk in.
Not unlike her with her hair down: slimmer.
Three and six I gave for the frame.
She said it would look nice over the bed.
Naked nymphs: Greece: and for instance all the people that lived then.
He turned the pages back.
—Metempsychosis, he said, is what the ancient Greeks called it.
They used to believe you could be changed into an animal or a tree, for instance.
What they called nymphs, for example.
Her spoon ceased to stir up the sugar.
She gazed straight before her, inhaling through her arched nostrils.
—There’s a smell of burn, she said.
Did you leave anything on the fire?
—The kidney!
he cried suddenly.
He fitted the book roughly into his inner pocket and, stubbing his toes against the broken commode, hurried out towards the smell, stepping hastily down the stairs with a flurried stork’s legs.
Pungent smoke shot up in an angry jet from a side of the pan.
By prodding a prong of the fork under the kidney he detached it and turned it turtle on its back.
Only a little burned.
He tossed it off the pan on to a plate and let the scanty brown gravy trickle over it.
Cup of tea now.
He sat down, cut and buttered a slice of the loaf.
He shore away the burnt flesh and flung it to the cat.
Then he put a forkful into his mouth, chewing with discernment the toothsome pliant meat.
Done to a turn.
A mouthful of tea.
Then he cut away dies of bread, sopped one in the gravy and put it in his mouth.
What was that about some young student and a picnic?
He creased out the letter at his side, reading it slowly as he chewed, sopping another die of bread in the gravy and raising it to his mouth.
Dearest Papli,  Thanks ever so much for the lovely birthday present.
It suits me splendid.
Everyone says I’m quite the belle in my new tam.
I got mummy’s lovely box of creams and am writing.
They are lovely.
I am getting on swimming in the photo business now.
Mr Coghlan took one of me and Airs will send when developed.
We did great biz yesterday.
Fair day and all the beef to the heels were in.
We are going to lough Owel on Monday with a few friends to make a scrap picnic.
Give my love to mummy and to yourself a big kiss and thanks.
I hear them at the piano downstairs.
There is to be a concert in the Greville Arms on Saturday.
There is a young student comes here some evenings named Bannon his cousins or something are big swells he sings Boylan’s (I was on the pop of writing Blazes Boylan’s) song about those seaside girls.
Tell him silly Milly sends my best respects.
Must now close with fondest love.
Your fond daughter,  MILLY.
P.S.
Excuse bad writing, am in a hurry.
Byby.
M.  Fifteen yesterday.
Curious, fifteenth of the month too.
Her first birthday away from home.
Separation.
Remember the summer morning she was born, running to knock up Mrs Thornton in Denzille street.
Jolly old woman.
Lots of babies she must have helped into the world.
She knew from the first poor little Rudy wouldn’t live.
Well, God is good, sir.
She knew at once.
He would be eleven now if he had lived.
His vacant face stared pitying at the postscript.
Excuse bad writing.
Hurry.
Piano downstairs.
Coming out of her shell.
Row with her in the XL Café about the bracelet.
Wouldn’t eat her cakes or speak or look.
Saucebox.
He sopped other dies of bread in the gravy and ate piece after piece of kidney.
Twelve and six a week.
Not much.
Still, she might do worse.
Music hall stage.
Young student.
He drank a draught of cooler tea to wash down his meal.
Then he read the letter again: twice.
O well: she knows how to mind herself.
But if not?
No, nothing has happened.
Of course it might.
Wait in any case till it does.
A wild piece of goods.
Her slim legs running up the staircase.
Destiny.
Ripening now.
Vain: very.
He smiled with troubled affection at the kitchen window.
Day I caught her in the street pinching her cheeks to make them red.
Anæmic a little.
Was given milk too long.
On the Erin’s King that day round the Kish.
Damned old tub pitching about.
Not a bit funky.
Her pale blue scarf loose in the wind with her hair.
All dimpled cheeks and curls,  Your head it simply swirls.
Seaside girls.
Torn envelope.
Hands stuck in his trousers’ pockets, jarvey off for the day, singing.
Friend of the family.
Swurls, he says.
Pier with lamps, summer evening, band,  Those girls, those girls,  Those lovely seaside girls    Milly too.
Young kisses: the first.
Far away now past.
Mrs Marion.
Reading lying back now, counting the strands of her hair, smiling, braiding.
A soft qualm regret, flowed down his backbone, increasing.
Will happen, yes.
Prevent.
Useless: can’t move.
Girl’s sweet light lips.
Will happen too.
He felt the flowing qualm spread over him.
Useless to move now.
Lips kissed, kissing kissed.
Full gluey woman’s lips.
Better where she is down there: away.
Occupy her.
Wanted a dog to pass the time.
Might take a trip down there.
August bank holiday, only two and six return.
Six weeks off however.
Might work a press pass.
Or through M‘Coy.
The cat, having cleaned all her fur, returned to the meatstained paper, nosed at it and stalked to the door.
She looked back at him, mewing.
Wants to go out.
Wait before a door sometime it will open.
Let her wait.
Has the fidgets.
Electric.
Thunder in the air.
Was washing at her ear with her back to the fire too.
He felt heavy, full: then a gentle loosening of his bowels.
He stood up, undoing the waistband of his trousers.
The cat mewed to him.
—Miaow!
he said in answer.
Wait till I’m ready.
Heaviness: hot day coming.
Too much trouble to fag up the stairs to the landing.
A paper.
He liked to read at stool.
Hope no ape comes knocking just as I’m.
In the table drawer he found an old number of Titbits.
He folded it under his armpit, went to the door and opened it.
The cat went up in soft bounds.
Ah, wanted to go upstairs, curl up in a ball on the bed.
Listening, he heard her voice:  —Come, come, pussy.
Come.
He went out through the backdoor into the garden: stood to listen towards the next garden.
No sound.
Perhaps hanging clothes out to dry.
The maid was in the garden.
Fine morning.
He bent down to regard a lean file of spearmint growing by the wall.
Make a summerhouse here.
Scarlet runners.
Virginia creepers.
Want to manure the whole place over, scabby soil.
A coat of liver of sulphur.
All soil like that without dung.
Household slops.
Loam, what is this that is?
The hens in the next garden: their droppings are very good top dressing.
Best of all though are the cattle, especially when they are fed on those oilcakes.
Mulch of dung.
Best thing to clean ladies’ kid gloves.
Dirty cleans.
Ashes too.
Reclaim the whole place.
Grow peas in that corner there.
Lettuce.
Always have fresh greens then.
Still gardens have their drawbacks.
That bee or bluebottle here Whitmonday.
He walked on.
Where is my hat, by the way?
Must have put it back on the peg.
Or hanging up on the floor.
Funny, I don’t remember that.
Hallstand too full.
Four umbrellas, her raincloak.
Picking up the letters.
Drago’s shopbell ringing.
Queer I was just thinking that moment.
Brown brilliantined hair over his collar.
Just had a wash and brushup.
Wonder have I time for a bath this morning.
Tara street.
Chap in the paybox there got away James Stephens they say.
O’Brien.
Deep voice that fellow Dlugacz has.
Agenda what is it?
Now, my miss.
Enthusiast.
He kicked open the crazy door of the jakes.
Better be careful not to get these trousers dirty for the funeral.
He went in, bowing bis head under the low lintel.
Leaving the door ajar, amid the stench of mouldy lime-wash and stale cobwebs he undid his braces.
Before sitting down he peered through a chink up at the next-door window.
The king was in his countinghouse.
Nobody.
Asquat on the cuckstool he folded out his paper turning its pages over on his bared knees.
Something new and easy.
No great hurry.
Keep it a bit.
Our prize titbit.
Matcham’s Masterstroke.
Written by Mr Philip Beaufoy, Playgoers’ club, London.
Payment at the rate of one guinea a column has been made to the writer.
Three and a half.
Three pounds three.
Three pounds thirteen and six.
Quietly he read, restraining himself, the first column and, yielding but resisting, began the second.
Midway, his last resistance yielding, he allowed his bowels to ease themselves quietly as he read, reading still patiently, that slight constipation of yesterday quite gone.
Hope it’s not too big bring on piles again.
No, just right.
So.
Ah!
Costive one tabloid of cascara sagrada.
Life might be so.
It did not move or touch him but it was something quick and neat.
Print anything now.
Silly season.
He read on, seated calm above his own rising smell.
Neat certainly.
Matcham often thinks of the masterstroke by which he won the laughing witch who now.
Begins and ends morally.
Hand in hand.
Smart.
He glanced back through what he had read and, while feeling his water flow quietly, he envied kindly Mr Beaufoy who had written it and received payment of three pounds thirteen and six.
Might manage a sketch.
By Mr and Mrs L. M. Bloom.
Invent a story for some proverb which?
Time I used to try jotting down on my cuff what she said dressing.
Dislike dressing together.
Nicked myself shaving.
Biting her nether lip, hooking the placket of her skirt.
Timing her.
9.15.
Did Roberts pay you yet?
9.20.
What had Gretta Conroy on?
9.23.
What possessed me to buy this comb?
9.24.
I’m swelled after that cabbage.
A speck of dust on the patent leather of her boot.
Rubbing smartly in turn each welt against her stocking calf.
Morning after the bazaar dance when May’s band played Ponchielli’s dance of the hours.
Explain that morning hours, noon, then evening coming on, then night hours.
Washing her teeth.
That was the first night.
Her head dancing.
Her fansticks clicking.
Is that Boylan well off?
He has money.
Why?
I noticed he had a good smell off his breath dancing.
No use humming then.
Allude to it.
Strange kind of music that last night.
The mirror was in shadow.
She rubbed her handglass briskly on her woollen vest against her full wagging bub.
Peering into it.
Lines in her eyes.
It wouldn’t pan out somehow.
Evening hours, girls in grey gauze.
Night hours then black with daggers and eyemasks.
Poetical idea pink, then golden, then grey, then black.
Still true to life also.
Day, then the night.
He tore away half the prize story sharply and wiped himself with it.
Then he girded up his trousers, braced and buttoned himself.
He pulled back the jerky shaky door of the jakes and came forth from the gloom into the air.
In the bright light, lightened and cooled in limb, he eyed carefully his black trousers, the ends, the knees, the houghs of the knees.
What time is the funeral?
Better find out in the paper.
A creak and a dark whirr in the air high up.
The bells of George’s church.
They tolled the hour: loud dark iron.
Heigho !
Heigko !
Heigho !
Heigho !
Heigho !
Heigho!
Quarter to.
There again: the overtone following through the air, third.
Poor Dignam!
BY LORRIES along sir John Rogerson’s Quay Mr Bloom walked soberly, past Windmill lane, Leask’s the linseed crusher’s, the postal telegraph office.
Could have given that address too.
And past the sailors’ home.
He turned from the morning noises of the quayside and walked through Lime street.
By Brady’s cottages aboy for the skins lolled, his bucket of offal linked, smoking a chewed fagbutt.
A smaller girl with scars of eczema on her forehead eyed him, listlessly holding her battered caskhoop.
Tell him if he smokes he won’t grow.
O let him!
His life isn’t such a bed of roses!
Waiting outside pubs to bring da home.
Come home to ma, da.
Slack hour: won’t be many there.
He crossed Townsend street, passed the frowning face of Bethel.
El, yes: house of: Aleph, Beth.
And past Nichols’ the undertaker’s.
At eleven it is.
Time enough.
Daresay Corny Kelleher bagged that job for O’Neill’s.
Singing with his eyes shut.
Corney.
Met her once in the park.
In the dark.
What a lark.
Police tout.
Her name and address she then told with my tooraloom tooraloom tay.
O, surely he bagged it.
Bury him cheap in a whatyoumaycall.
With my tooraloom, tooraloom, tooraloom, tooraloom.
In Westland row he halted before the window of the Belfast and Oriental Tea Company and read the legends of leadpapered packets: choice blend, finest quality, family tea.
Rather warm.
Tea.
Must get some from Tom Kernan.
Couldn’t ask him at a funeral, though.
While his eyes still read blandly he took off his hat quietly inhaling his hairoil and sent his right hand with slow grace over his brow and hair.
Very warm morning.
Under their dropped lids his eyes found the tiny bow of the leather headband inside his high grade ha.
Just there.
His right hand came down into the bowl of his hat.
His fingers found quickly a card behind the headband and transferred it to his waistcoat pocket.
