It has been an unusually fatiguing day, a chapter of accidents.
Wait.
I mean, wartsblood spreads warts, you said…  VIRAG: (Severely, his nose hardhumped, his side eye winking) Stop twirling your thumbs and have a good old thunk.
See, you have forgotten.
Exercise your mnemo-technic.
La causa è santa.
Tara.
Tara.
(Aside) He will surely remember.
BLOOM: Rosemary also did I understand you to say or willpower over parasitic tissues.
Then nay no I have an inkling.
The touch of a deadhand cures.
Mnemo?
VIRAG: (Excitedly) I say so.
I say so.
E’en so.
Technic.
(He taps his parckmentrott energetically) This book tells you how to act with all descriptive particulars.
Consult index for agitated fear of aconite, melancholy of muriatic, priapic pulsatilla.
Virag is going to talk about amputation.
Our old friend caustic.
They must be starved.
Snip offwith horsehair under the denned neck.
But, to change the venue to the Bulgar and the Basque, have you made up your mind whether you like or dislike women in male habiliments?
(With a dry snigger) You intended to devote an entire year to the study of the religious problem and the summer months of 1882 to square the circle and win that million.
Pomegranate!
From the sublime to the ridiculous is but a step.
Pyjamas, let us say?
Or stockingette gusseted knickers, closed?
Or, put we the case, those complicated combinations, camiknickers?
(He crows derisively) Keekeereekee!
(Bloom surveys uncertainly the three whores, then gazes at the veiled mauve light, hearing the everflying moth)  BLOOM: I wanted then to have now concluded.
Nightdress was never.
Hence this.
But tomorrow is a new day will be.
Past was is today.
What now is will then tomorrow as now was be past yester.
VIRAG: (Prompts into his ear in a pig’s whisper) Insects of the day spend their brief existence in reiterated coition, lured by the smell of the inferiorly pulchritudinous female possessing extendified pudendal verve in dorsal region.
Pretty Poll!
(Hisyellow parrotbeakgabbles nasally) They had a proverb in the Carpathians in or about the year five thousand five hundred and fifty of our era.
One table-spoonful of honey will attract friend Bruin more than half a dozen barrels of first choice malt vinegar.
Bear’s buzz bothers bees.
But of this apart.
At another time we may resume.
We were very pleased, we others.
(He coughs and, bending his brow, rubs his nose thoughtfully with a scooping hand) You shall find that these night insects follow the light.
An illusion for remember their complex unadjustable eye.
For all these knotty points see the seventeenth book of my Fundamentals of Sexology or the Love Passion which Doctor L. B. says is the book sensation of the year.
Some, to example, there are again whose movements are automatic.
Perceive.
That is his appropriate sun.
Nightbird nightsun nighttown.
Chase me, Charley!
Buzz!
BLOOM: Bee or bluebottle too other day butting shadow on wall dazed self then me wandered dazed down shirt good job I…  VIRAG: (His face impassive, laughs in a rich feminine key) Splendid!
Spanish fly in his fly or mustard plaster on his dibble (He gobbles gluttonously with turkey wattles) Bubbly jock!
Bubbly jock!
Where are we?
Open Sesame!
Cometh forth!
(He unrolls his parchment rapidly and reads, his glowworm’s nose running backwards over the letters which he claws) Stay, good friend.
I bring thee thy answer.
Redbank oysters will shortly be upon us.
I’m the best o’cook.
Those succulent bivalves may help us and the truffles of Perigord, tubers dislodged through mister omnivorous porker, were unsurpassed in cases of nervous debility or viragitis.
Though they stink yet they sting.
(He wags head with cackling raillery) Jocular.
With my eyeglass in my ocular.
BLOOM: (Absently) Ocularly woman’s bivalve case is worse.
Always open sesame.
The cloven sex.
Why they fear vermin, creeping things.
Yet Eve and the serpent contradict.
Not a historical fart.
Obvious analogy to my idea.
Serpents too are gluttons for woman’s milk.
Wind their way through miles of omnivorous forest to sucksucculent her breast dry.
Like those bubblyjocular Roman matrons one reads of in Ele-phantuliasis.
VIRAG: (His mouth projected in hard wrinkles, eyes stonily forlornly closed, psalms in outlandish monotone) That the cows with their those distended udders that they have been the known…  BLOOM: I am going to scream.
I beg your pardon.
Ah?
So.
(He repeats) Spontaneously to seek out thesaurian’s lair in order to entrust their teats to his avid suction.
Ant milks aphis.
(Profoundly) Instinct rules the world.
In life.
In death.
VIRAG: (Head askew, arches his back and hunched wing-shoulders, peers at the moth out of blear bulged eyes, points a horning claw and cries) Who’s Ger Ger?
Who’s dear Gerald?
O, I much fear he shall be most badly burned.
Will some pleashe pershon not now impediment so catastrophics mit agitation of firstclass tablenumpkin?
(He mews) Luss puss puss puss!
(He sighs, draws back and stares sideways down with dropping underjaw.)
Well, well He doth rest anon.
I’m a tiny tiny thing  Ever flying in the spring  Round and round a ringaring.
Long ago I was a king,  Now I do this kind of thing  On the wing, on the wing!
Bing!
(He rushes against the mauve shade flapping noisily) Pretty pretty pretty pretty pretty pretty petticoats.
(From left upper entrance with two sliding steps Henry Flower comes forward to left front centre.
He wears a dark mantle and drooping plumed sombrero.
He carries a silver-stringed inlaid dulcimer and a longstemmed bamboo Jacob’s pipe, its clay bowl fashioned as a female head.
He wears dark velvet hose and silverbuckled pumps.
He has the romantic Saviour’s face with flowing locks, thin beard and moustache.
His spindlelegs and sparrow feet are those of the tenor Mario, prince of Candia.
He settles down his goffered ruffs and moistens his lips with a passage of his amorous tongue.)
HENRY: (In a low dulcet voice, touching the strings of his guitar) There is a flower that bloometh.
(Virag truculent, his jowl set, stares at the lamp.
Grave Bloom regards Zois neck.
Henry gallant turns with pendent dewlap to the piano.)
STEPHEN: (To himself) Play with your eyes shut.
Imitate pa.
Filling my belly with husks of swine.
Too much of this.
I will arise and go to my.
Expect this is the.
Steve, thou art in a parlous way.
Must visit old Deasy or telegraph.
Our interview of this morning has left on me a deep impression.
Though our ages.
Will write fully tomorrow.
I’m partially drunk, by the way.
(He touches the keys again) Minor chord comes now.
Yes.
Not much however.
(Almidano Artifoni holds out a batonroll of music with vigorous moustachework)  ARTIFONI: Ci rifletta.
Lei rovina tutto.
FLORRY: Sing us something.
Love’s old sweet song.
STEPHEN: No voice.
I am a most finished artist.
Lynch, did I show you the letter about the lute?
FLORRY: (Smirking) The bird that can sing and won’t sing.
(The Siamese twins, Philip Drunk and Philip Sober, two Oxford dons with lawnmowers, appear in the window embrasure.
Both are masked with Matthew Arnold’s face.)
PHILIP SOBER: Take a fool’s advice.
All is not well.
Work it out with the buttend of a pencil, like a good young idiot.
Three pounds twelve you got, two notes, one sovereign, two crowns, if youth but knew.
Mooney’s en ville, Mooney’s sur mer, the Moira, Larchet’s, Holies street hospital, Burke’s.
Eh?
I am watching you.
PHILIP DRUNK: (Impatiently) Ah, bosh, man.
Go to hell!
I paid my way.
If I could only find out about octaves.
Reduplication of personality.
Who was it told me his name?
(His lawnmower begins to purr) Aha, yes.
Zoe mou sas agapo.
Have a notion I was here before.
When was it not Atkinson his card I have somewhere?
Mac somebody.
Unmack I have it.
He told me about, hold on, Swinburne, was it, no?
FLORRY: And the song?
STEPHEN: Spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.
FLORRY: Are you out of Maynooth?
You’re like someone I knew once.
STEPHEN: Out of it now.
(To himself) Clever.
PHILIP DRUNK AND PHILIP SOBER: (Their lawnmowers purring with a rigadoon of grasshalms) Clever ever.
Out of it.
Out of it.
By the by have you the book, the thing, the ashplant?
Yes, there it, yes.
Cleverever outofitnow.
Keep in condition.
Do like us.
ZOE: There was a priest down here two nights ago to do his bit of business with his coat buttoned up.
You needn’t try to hide, I says to him.
I know you’ve a Roman collar.
VIRAG: Perfectly logical from his standpoint.
Fall of man.
(Harshly, his pupils waxing) To hell with the pope!
Nothing new under the sun.
I am the Virag who disclosed the sex secrets of monks and maidens.
Why I left the Church of Rome.
Read the Priest, the Woman and the Confessional.
Penrose.
Flipperty Jippert.
(He zvriggles) Woman, undoing with sweet pudor her belt of rushrope, offers her allmoist yoni to man’s lingam.
Short time after man presents woman with pieces of jungle meat.
Woman shows joy and covers herself with featherskins.
Man loves her yoni fiercely with big lingam, the stiff one.
(He cries) Coactus volui.
Then giddy woman will run about.
Strong man grasps woman’s wrist.
Woman squeals, bites, spucks.
Man, now fierce angry, strikes woman’s fat yadgana.
(He chases his tail) Piffpaff!
Popo!
(He stops, sneezes) Pchp!
(He worries his butt) Prrrrrht!
LYNCH: I hope you gave the good father a penance.
Nine glorias for shooting a bishop.
ZOE: (Spouts walrus smoke through her nostrils) He couldn’t get a connection.
Only, you know, sensation.
A dry rush.
BLOOM: Poor man!
ZOE: (Lightly) Only for what happened him.
BLOOM: How?
VIRAG: (A diabolic rictus of black luminosity contracting his visage, cranes his scraggy neck forward.
He lifts a mooncalf nozzle and howls.)
Verfluchte Goim !
He had a father, forty fathers.
He never existed.
Pig God!
He had two left feet.
He was Judas Iacchias, a Libyan eunuch, the pope’s bastard.
(He leans out on tortured forepaws, elbows bent rigid, his eye agonising in his flat skullneck and yelps over the mute world) A son of a whore.
Apocalypse.
KITTY: And Mary Shortall that was in the lock with the pox she got from Jimmy Pidgeon in the blue caps had a child off him that couldn’t swallow and was smothered with the convulsions in the mattress and we all subscribed for the funeral.
PHILIP DRUNK: (Gravely) Qui vous a mis dans cettefichue position, Philippe?
PHILIP OBER: (Gaily) C’était le sacre pigeon, Philippe.
(Kitty unpins her hat and sets it dozen calmly, patting her henna hair.
And a prettier, a daintier head of winsome curls was never seen on a whore’s shoulders.
Lynch puts on her hat.
She whips it off.)
LYNCH: (Laughs) And to such delights has Metchnikoff inoculated anthropoid apes.
FLORRY: (Nods) Locomotor ataxy.
ZOE: (Gaily) O, my dictionary.
LYNCH: Three wise virgins.
VIRAG: (Agueshaken, profuse yellow spawn foaming over his bony epileptic lips) She sold lovephiltres, whitewax, orange flower.
Panther, the Roman centurion, polluted her with his genitories.
(He sticks out a flickering phosphorescent scorpion tongue, his hand on his fork) Messiah!
He burst her tympanum.
(With gibbering baboon’s cries he jerks his hips in the cynical spasm) Hik!
Hek!
Hak!
Hok!
Huk!
Kok!
Kuk!
(Ben Jumbo Bollard, rubicund, musclebound, hairy-nostrilled, hugebearded, cabbageeared, shaggychested, shock-maned, fatpapped, stands forth, his loins and genitals tightened into a pair of black bathing bagslops)  BEN DOLLARD: (Nakkering castanet bones in his huge padded paws, yodels jovially in base barreltone) When love absorbs my ardent soul.
(The virgins, Nurse Callan and Nurse Quigley, burst through the ringkeepers and the ropes and mob him with open arms)  THE VIRGINS: (Gushingly) Big Ben!
Ben MacChree!
A VOICE: Hold that fellow with the bad breeches.
BEN DOLLARD: (Smites his thigh in abundant laughter) Hold him now.
HENRY: (Caressing on his breast a severed female head, murmurs) Thine heart, mine love.
(He plucks his lutestrings) When first I saw…      VIRAG: (Sloughing his skins, his multitudinous plumage moulting) Rats!
(He yawns, showing a coalblack throat and closes his jaws by an upward push of his parchment roll) After having said which I took my departure.
Farewell.
Fare thee well.
Dreck !
(Henry Flower combs his moustache and beard rapidly with a pocketcomb and gives a cow’s lick to his hair.
Steered by his rapier, he glides to the door, his wild harp slung behind him.
Virag reaches the door in two ungainly stilthops, his tail cocked, and deftly claps sideways on the wall a pusyellow flybill, butting it with his head.)
THE FLYBILL: K. II.
post no bills.
Strictly confidential.
Dr Hy Franks.
HENRY: All is lost now.
(Virag unscrews his head in a trice and holds it under his arm) virag’s head: Quack!
(Exeunt severally)  STEPHEN: (Over his shoulder to Zoe) You would have preferred the fighting parson who founded the protestant error.
But beware Antisthenes, the dog sage, and the last end of Arius Heresiarchus.
The agony in the closet.
LYNCH: All one and the same God to her.
STEPHEN: (Devoutly) And Sovereign Lord of all things.
FLORRY: (JO Stephen) I’m sure you are a spoiled priest.
Or a monk.
LYNCH: He is.
A Cardinal’s son.
STEPHEN: Cardinal sin.
Monks of the screw.
(His Eminence, Simon Stephen Cardinal Dedalus, Primate of all Ireland, appears in the doorway, dressed in red soutane, sandals and socks.
Seven dwarf simian acolytes, also in red, cardinal sins, uphold his train, peeping under it.
He wears a battered silk hat sideways on his head.
His thumbs are stuck in his armpits and his palms outspread.
Round his neck hangs a rosary of corks ending on his breast in a corkscrew cross.
Releasing his thumbs, he invokes grace from on high with large wave gestures and proclaims with bloated pomp.)
THE CARDINAL:  Conservio lies captured.
He lies in the lowest dungeon  With manacles and chains around his limbs  Weighing upwards of three tons.
(He looks at all for a moment, his right eye closed tight, his left cheek puffed out.
Then, unable to repress his merriment, he rocks to and fro, arms akimbo, and sings with broad rollicking humour.)
O, the poor little fellow  Hi-hi-hi-hi-his legs they were yellow  He was plump, fat and heavy and brisk as a snake  But some bloody savage  To graize his white cabbage  He murdered Nell Flaherty’s duckloving drake.
(A multitude of midges swarms over his robe.
He scratches himself with crossed arms at his ribs, grimacing, and exclaims.)
I’m suffering the agony of the damned.
By the hoky fiddle, thanks be to Jesus those funny litde chaps are not unanimous.
If they were they’d walk me off the face of the bloody globe.
(His head aslant, he blesses curtly with fore and middle fingers, imparts the Easter kiss and doubleshuffles off comically, swaying Ms hat from side to side, shrinking quickly to the size of his trainbearers.
The dwarf acolytes, l* peeping, nudging, ogling, Easterkissing, zigzag behind him.
His voice is heard mellow from afar, merciful, male, melodious.)
Shall carry my heart to thee,  Shall carry my heart to thee,  And the breath of the balmy night  Shall carry my heart to thee.
(The trick doorhandle turns)  the doorhandle: Theeee.
ZOE: The devil is in that door.
(A male form passes down the creaking staircase and is heard taking the waterproof and hat from the rack.
Bloom starts forward involuntarily and, half closing the door as he passes, takes the chocolate from his pocket and offers it nervously to Zoe.)
ZOE: (Sniffs his hair briskly) Hum.
Thank your mother for the rabbits.
I’m very fond of what I like.
BLOOM: (Hearing a male voice in talk with the whores on the doorstep, pricks his ears) If it were he?
After?
Or because not?
Or the double event?
ZOE: (Tears open the silverfoil) Fingers was made before forks.
(She breaks off and nibbles a piece, gives a piece to Kitty Ricketts and then turns futtenishly to Lynch) No objection to French lozenges?
(He nods.
She taunts him.)
Have it now or wait till you get it?
(He opens his mouth, his head cocked.
She whirls the prize in left circle.
His head follows.
She whirls it back in right circle.
He eyes her.)
Catch.
(She tosses a piece.
With an adroit snap he catches it and bites it through with a crack.)
KITTY: (Chewing) The engineer I was with at the bazaar does have lovely ones.
Full of the best liqueurs.
And the viceroy was there with his lady.
The gas we had on the Toft’s hobbyhorses.
I’m giddy still.
BLOOM: (In Svengali’s fur overcoat, with folded arms and Napoleonic forelock, frowns in ventriloquial exorcism with piercing eagle glance towards the door.
Then, rigid, with left foot advanced, he makes a swift pass with impelling fingers and gives the sign of past master, drawing his right arm downwards from his left shoulder.)
Go, go, go, I conjure you, whoever you are.
(A male cough and tread are heard passing through the mist outside.
Bloom’s features relax.
He places a hand in his waistcoat, posing calmly.
Zoe offers him chocolate!)
BLOOM: (Solemnly) Thanks.
ZOE: Do as you’re bid.
Here.
(A firm heelclacking is heard on the stairs)  BLOOM: (Takes the chocolate) Aphrodisiac?
But I thought it.
Vanilla calms or?
Mnemo.
Confused light confuses memory.
Red influences lupus.
Colours affect women’s characters, any they have.
This black makes me sad.
Eat and be merry for tomorrow.
(He eats) Influence taste too, mauve.
But it is so long since I.
Seems new.
Aphro.
That priest.
Must come.
Better late than never.
Try truffles at Andrews.
(The door opens.
Bella Cohen, a massive whoremistress enters.
She is dressed in a threequarter ivory gown, fringed round the hem with tasselled selvedge, and cools herself, flirting a black horn fan like Minnie Hauck in Carmen.
On her left hand are wedding and keeper rings.
Her eyes are deeply carboned.
She has a sprouting moustache.
Her olive face is heavy, slightly sweated and fullnosed, with orangetainted nostrils.
She has large pendant beryl eardrops.)
BELLA: My word!
I’m all of a mucksweat.
(She glances around her at the couples.
Then her eyes rest on Bloom with hard insistence.
Her large fan winnows wind towards her heated face, neck and embonpoint.
Her falcon eyes glitter.)
THE FAN: (Flirting quickly, then slowly) Married, I see.
BLOOM: Yes…Partly, I have mislaid…  THE FAN: (Half opening, then closing) And the missus is master.
Petticoat government.
BLOOM: (Looks down with a sheepish grin) That is so.
THE FAN: (Folding together, rests against her eardrop) Have you forgotten me?
BLOOM: Yes.
No.
THE FAN: (Folded akimbo against her waist) Is me her was you dreamed before?
Was then she him you us since knew?
Am all them and the same now we?
(Bella approaches, gently tapping with the fan)  BLOOM: (Wincing) Powerful being.
In my eyes read that slumber which women love.
THE FAN: (Tapping) We have met.
You are mine.
It is fate.
BLOOM: (Cowed) Exuberant female.
Enormously I desiderate your domination.
I am exhausted, abandoned, no more young.
I stand, so to speak, with an unposted letter bearing the extra regulation fee before the too late box of the general postoffice of human life.
The door and window open at a right angle cause a draught of thirtytwo feet per second according to the law of falling bodies.
I have felt this instant a twinge of sciatica in my left glutear muscle.
It runs in our family.
Poor dear papa, a widower, was a regular barometer from it.
He believed in animal heat.
A skin of tabby lined his winter waistcoat.
Near the end, remembering king David and the Sunamite, he shared his bed with Athos, faithful after death.
A dog’s spittle, as you probably…(He winces) Ah!
RICHIE GOULDING: (Bagweighted, passes the door) Mocking is catch.
Best value in Dub.
Fit for a prince’s liver and kidney.
THE FAN: (Tapping) All things end.
Be mine.
Now.
BLOOM: (Undecided) All now?
I should not have parted with my talisman.
Rain, exposure at dewfall on lie sea rocks, a peccadillo at my time of life.
Every phenomenon has a natural cause.
THE FAN: (Points downwards slowly) You may.
BLOOM: (Looks downwards and perceives her unfastened bootlace) We are observed.
THE FAN: (Points downwards quickly) You must.
BLOOM: (With desire, with reluctance) I can make a true black knot.
Learned when I served my time and worked the mail order line for Kellet’s.
Experienced hand.
Every knot says a lot.
Let me.
In courtesy.
