The individual whose visual organs, while the above was going on, were at this juncture commencing to exhibit symptoms of animation, was as astute if not astuter than any man living and anybody that conjectured the contrary would have found themselves pretty speedily in the wrong shop.
During the past four minutes or thereabouts he had been staring hard at a certain amount of number one Bass bottled by Messrs Bass and Co at Burton-on-Trent which happened to be situated amongst a lot of others right opposite to where he was and which was certainly calculated to attract anyone’s remark on account of its scarlet appearance.
He was simply and solely, as it subsequently transpired for reasons best known to himself which put quite an altogether different complexion on the proceedings, after the moment before’s observations about boyhood days and the turf, recollecting two or three private transactions of his own which the other two were as mutually innocent of as the babe unborn.
Eventually, however, both their eyes met and, as soon as it began to dawn on him that the other was endeavouring to help himself to the thing, he involuntarily determined to help him himself and so he accordingly took hold of the mediumsized glass recipient which contained the fluid sought after and made a capacious hole in it by pouring a lot of it out with, also at the same time however, a considerable degree of attentiveness in order not to upset any of the beer that was in it about the place.
The debate which ensued was in its scope and progress an epitome of the course of life.
Neither place nor council was lacking in dignity.
The debaters were the keenest in the land, the theme they were engaged on the loftiest and most vital.
The high hall of Home’s house had never beheld an assembly so representative and so varied nor had the old rafters of that establishment ever listened to a language so encyclopaedic.
A gallant scene in truth it made.
Crotthers was there at the foot of the table in his striking Highland garb, his face glowing from the briny airs of the Mull of Galloway.
There too, opposite to him was Lynch, whose countenance bore already the stigmata of early depravity and premature wisdom.
Next the Scotchman was the place assigned to Costello, the eccentric, while at his side was seated in stolid repose the squat form of Madden.
The chair of the resident indeed stood vacant before the hearth but on either flank of it the figure of Bannon in explorer’s kit of tweed shorts and salted cowhide brogues contrasted sharply with the primrose elegance and townbred manners of Malachi Roland St John Mulligan.
Lastly at the head of the board was the young poet who found a refuge from his labours of pedagogy and metaphysical inquisition in the convivial atmosphere of Socratic discussion, while to right and left of him were accommodated the flippant prognosti-cator, fresh from the hippodrome, and that vigilant wanderer, soiled by the dust of travel and combat and stained by the mire of an indelible dishonour, but from whose steadfast and constant heart no lure or peril or threat or degradation could ever efface the image of that voluptuous loveliness which the inspired pencil of Lafayette has limned for ages yet to come.
It had better be stated here and now at the outset that the perverted transcendentalism to which Mr S. Dedalus’ (Div.
Seep.)
contentions would appear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter to accepted scientific methods.
Science, it cannot be too often repeated, deals with tangible phenomena.
The man of science like the man in the street has to face hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked and explain them as best he can.
There may be, it is true, some questions which science cannot answer—at present—such as the first problem submitted by Mr L. Bloom (Pubb.
Canv.)
regarding the future determination of sex.
Must we accept the view of Empedocles of Trinacria that the right ovary (the postmenstrual period, assert others) is responsible for the birth of males or are the too long neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the differentiating factors or is it, as most embryologists incline to opine, such as Culpepper, Spallanzani, Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and Valenti, a mixture of both?
This would be tantamount to a cooperation (one of nature’s favourite devices) between the nisus formativus of the nemasperm on the one hand and on the other a happily chosen position, succubitus felix, of the passive element.
The other problem raised by the same inquirer is scarcely less vital: infant mortality.
It is interesting because, as he pertinently remarks, we are all born in the same way but we all die in different ways.
Mr M. Mulligan (Hyg.
et Eug.
Doc.)
blames the sanitary conditions in which our greylunged citizens contract adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc.
by inhaling the bacteria which lurk in dust.
These facts, he alleges, and the revolting spectacles offered by our streets, hideous publicity posters, religious ministers of all denominations, mutilated soldiers and sailors, exposed scorbutic cardrivers, the suspended carcases of dead animals, paranoic bachelors and unfructi-fied duennas—these, he said, were accountable for any and every fallingoff in the calibre of the race.
Kalipedia, he prophesied, would soon be generally adopted and all the graces of life, genuinely good music, agreeable literature, light philosophy, instructive pictures, plastercast reproductions of the classical statues such as Venus and Apollo, artistic coloured photographs of prize babies, all these little attentions would enable ladies who were in a particular condition to pass the intervening months in a most enjoyable manner.
Mr J. Crotthers (Disc.
Bacc.)
attributes some of these demises to abnormal trauma in the case of women workers subjected to heavy labours in the workshop and to marital discipline in the home but by far the vast majority to neglect, private or official, culminating in the exposure of newborn infants, the practice of criminal abortion or in the atrocious crime of infanticide.
Although the former (we are thinking of neglect) is undoubtedly only too true the case he cites of nurses forgetting to count the sponges in the peritoneal cavity is too rare to be normative.
In fact when one comes to look into it the wonder is that so many pregnancies and deliveries go off so well as they do, all things considered and in spite of our human shortcomings which often balk nature in her intentions.
An ingenious suggestion is that thrown out by Mr V. Lynch (Bacc.
Arith.)
that both natality and mortality, as well as all other phenomena of evolution, tidal movements, lunar phases, blood temperatures, diseases in general, everything, in fine, in nature’s vast workshop from the extinction of some remote sun to the blossoming of one of the countless flowers which beautify our public parks, is subject to a law of numeration as yet unascertained.
Still the plain straightforward question why a child of normally healthy parents and seemingly a healthy child and properly looked after succumbs unaccountably in early childhood (though other children of the same marriage do not) must certainly, in the poet’s words, give us pause.
Nature, we may rest assured, has her own good and cogent reasons for whatever she does and in all probability such deaths are due to some law of anticipation by which organisms in which morbous germs have taken up their residence (modern science has conclusively shown that only the plasmic substance can be said to be immortal) tend to disappear at an increasingly earlier stage of development, an arrangement, which, though productive of pain to some of our feelings (notably the maternal), is nevertheless, some of us think, in the long run beneficial to the race in general in securing thereby the survival of the fittest.
Mr S. Dedalus’ (Div.
Seep.)
remark (or should it be called an interruption?)
that an omnivorous being which can masticate, deglute, digest and apparently pass through the ordinary channel with pluterperfect imperturbability such multifarious aliments as cancrenous females emaciated by parturition, corpulent professional gentlemen, not to speak of jaundiced politicians and chlorotic nuns, might possibly find gastric relief in an innocent collation of staggering bob, reveals as nought else could and in a very unsavoury light the tendency above alluded to.
For the enlightenment of those who are not so intimately acquainted with the minutiae of the municipal abbattoir as this morbid-minded esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweening bumptiousness in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from an alkali prides himself on being, it should perhaps be stated that staggering bob in the vile parlance of our lower class licensed victuallers signifies the cookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly dropped from its mother.
In a recent public controversy with Mr L. Bloom (Pubb.
Canv.)
which took place in the commons’ hall of the National Maternity Hospital, 29, 30 and 31 Holies street, of which, as is well known, Dr A.
Home (Lie.
in Mdw., F. K. Q. C. P.
I.)
is the able and popular master, he is reported by eyewitnesses as having stated that once a woman has let the cat into the bag (an esthetic allusion, presumably, to one of the most complicated and marvellous of all nature’s processes, the act of sexual congress) she must let it out again or give it life, as he phrased it, to save her own.
At the risk of her own was the telling rejoinder of his interlocutor none the less effective for the moderate and measured tone in which it was delivered.
Meanwhile the skill and patience of the physician had brought about a happy accouchement.
It had been a weary weary while both for patient and doctor.
All that surgical skill could do was done and the brave woman had manfully helped.
She had.
She had fought the good fight and now she was very very happy.
Those who have passed on, who have gone before, are happy too as they gaze down and smile upon the touching scene.
Reverently look at her as she reclines there with the mother-light in her eyes, that longing hunger for baby fingers (a pretty sight it is to see), in the first bloom of her new motherhood, breathing a silent prayer of thanksgiving to One above, the Universal Husband.
And as her loving eyes behold her babe she wishes only one blessing more, to have her dear Doady there with her to share her joy, to lay in his arms that mite of God’s clay, the fruit of their lawful embraces.
He is older now (you and I may whisper it) and a trifle stooped in the shoulders yet in the whirligig of years a grave dignity has come to the conscientious second accountant of tie Ulster bank, College Green branch.
O Doady, loved one of old, faithful life-mate now, it may never be again, that faroff time of the roses!
With the old shake of her pretty head she recalls those days.
God, how beautiful now across the mist of years!
But their children are grouped in her imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary Alice, Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called after our famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs of Waterford and Canda-har) and now this last pledge of their union, a Purefoy if ever there was one, with the true Purefoy nose.
Young hopeful will be christened Mortimer Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancer’s office, Dublin Castle.
And so time wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here.
No, let no sigh break from that bosom, dear gentle Mina.
And Doady, knock the ashes from your pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you (may it be the distant day!)
and dout the light whereby you read in the Sacred Book for the oil too has run low and so with a tranquil heart to bed, to rest.
He knows and will call in His own good time.
You too have fought the good fight and played loyally your man’s part.
Sir, to you my hand.
Well done, thou good and faithful servant!
There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart but they abide there and wait.
He may suffer their memory to grow dim, let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that they were not or at least were otherwise.
Yet a chance word will call them forth suddenly and they will rise up to confront him in the most various circumstances, a vision or a dream, or while timbrel and harp soothe his senses or amid the cool silver tranquillity of the evening or at the feast at midnight when he is now filled with wine.
Not to insult over him will the vision come as over one that lies under her wrath, not for vengeance to cut off from the living but shrouded in the piteous vesture of the past, silent, remote, reproachful.
The stranger still regarded on the face before him a slow recession of that false calm there, imposed, as it seemed, by habit or some studied trick, upon words so embittered as to accuse in their speaker an unhealthiness, a flair, for the cruder things of life.
A scene disengages itself in the observer’s memory, evoked, it would seem, by a word of so natural a homeliness as if those days were really present there (as some thought) with their immediate pleasures.
A shaven space of lawn one soft May evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple and white, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or collide and stop, one by its fellow, with a brief alert shock.
And yonder about that grey urn where the water moves at times in thoughtful irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny and their darker friend with I know not what of arresting in her pose then, Our Lady of the Cherries, a comely brace of them pendent from an ear, bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against the cool ardent fruit.
A lad of four or five in linseywoolsey (blossomtime but there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are gathered and hutched) is standing on the urn secured by that circle of girlish fond hands.
He frowns a little just as this young man does now with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of danger but must needs glance at whiles towards where his mother watches from the piazzetta giving upon the flower-close with a faint shadow of remoteness or of reproach (alles Vergängliche) in her glad look.
Mark this farther and remember.
The end comes suddenly.
Enter that antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their faces.
Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent.
Quietude of custody rather, befitting their station in that house, the vigilant watch of shepherds and of angels about a crib in Bethlehem of Juda long ago.
But as before the lightning the serried stormdouds, heavy with preponderant excess of moisture, in swollen masses turgidly distended, compass earth and sky in one vast slumber, .impending above parched field and drowsy oxen and blighted growth of shrub and verdure till in an instant a flash rives their centres and with the reverberation of the thunder the cloudburst pours its torrent, so and not otherwise was the transformation, violent and instantaneous, upon the utterance of the Word.
Burke’s!
Outflings my lord Stephen, giving the cry, and a tag and bobtail of all them after, cockerel, jackanapes, welsher, pilldoctor, punctual Bloom at heels with a universal grabbing at headgear, ashplants, bilbos, Panama hats and scabbards, Zermatt alpenstocks and what not.
A dedale of lusty youth, noble every student there.
Nurse Callan taken aback in the hallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon coming downstairs with news of placentation ended, a full pound if a milligramme.
They hark him on.
The door!
It is open?
Ha!
They are out tumultuously, off for a minute’s race, all bravely legging it, Burke’s of Denzille and Holies their ulterior goal.
Dixon follows, giving them sharp language but raps out an oath, he too, and on.
Bloom stays with nurse a thought to send a kind word to happy mother and nurseling up there.
Doctor Diet and Doctor Quiet.
Looks she too not other now?
Ward of watching in Home’s house has told its tale in that washedout pallor.
Them all being gone, a glance of motherwit helping he whispers close in going: Madam, when comes the storkbird for thee?
The air without is impregnated with raindew moisture, life essence celestial, glistering on Dublin stone there under starshiny coelnm.
God’s air, the Allfather’s air, scintillant circumambient cessile air.
Breathe it deep into thee.
By heaven, Theodore Purefoy, thou hast done a doughty deed and no botch!
Thou art, I vow, the remarkablest progenitor barring none in this chaffering allincluding most farraginous chronicle.
Astounding!
In her lay a Godframed Godgiven preformed possibility which thou hast fructified with thy modicum of man’s work.
Cleave to her!
Serve!
Toil on, labour like a very bandog and let scholarment and all Malthusiasts go hang.
Thou art all their daddies, Theodore.
Art drooping under thy load, bemoiled with butcher’s bills at home and ingots (not thine!)
in the countinghouse?
Head up!
For every newbegotten thou shalt gather thy homer of ripe wheat.
See, thy fleece is drenched.
Dost envy Darby Dulhnan there with his Joan?
A canting jay and a rheumeyed curdog is all their progeny.
Pshaw, I tell thee!
He is a mule, a dead gasteropod, without vim or stamina, not worth a cracked kreutzer.
Copulation without population!
No, say I!
Herod’s slaughter of the innocents were the truer name.
Vegetables, forsooth, and sterile cohabitation!
Give her beefsteaks, red, raw, bleeding!
She is a hoary pandemonium of ills, enlarged glands, mumps, quinsy, bunions, hayfever, bedsores, ringworm, floating kidney, Derbyshire neck, warts, bilious attacks, gallstones, cold feet, varicose veins.
A truce to threnes and trentals and jeremies and all such congenital defunctive music.
Twenty years of it, regret them not.
With thee it was not as with many that will and would and wait and never do.
Thou sawest thy America, thy lifetask, and didst charge to cover like the transpontine bison.
How saith Zarathusthra?
Deine Kuh Trübsal melkest Du.
Nun Trinkst Du die süsse Milch des Enters.
See!
It displodes for thee in abundance.
Drink, man, an udderful!
Mother’s milk, Purefoy, the milk of human kin, milk too of those burgeoning stars overhead, rutilant in thin rainvapour, punch milk, such as those rioters will quaff in their guzzlingden, milk of madness, the honeymilk of Canaan’s land.
Thy cow’s dug was tough, what?
Ay, but her milk is hot and sweet and fattening.
No dollop this but thick rich bonnyclaber.
To her, old patriarch!
Pap!
Per deam Partulam et Pertundam nunc est bibendum !
All off for a buster, armstrong, hollering down the street.
Bonafides.
Where you slep las nigh?
Timothy of the battered naggin.
Like ole Billyo.
Any brollies or gum-boots in the fambly?
Where the Henry Nevil’s sawbones and ole clo?
Sorra one o me knows.
Hurrah there, Dix!
Forward the ribbon counter.
Where’s Punch?
All serene.
Jay, look at the drunken minister coming out of the maternity hospal!
Benedicat vos omnipotens Deus, Pater et Filius.
A make, mister.
The Denzille lane boys.
Hell, blast ye!
Scoot.
Righto, Isaacs, shove em out of the bleeding limelight.
Yous join uz, dear sir?
No hentrusion in life.
Lou heap good man.
Allee samee this bunch.
En avant, mes enfants !
Fire away number one on the gun.
Burke’s!
Thence they advanced five parasangs.
Slattery’s mounted foot where’s that bleeding awfur?
Parson Steve, apostates’ creed!
No, no.
Mulligan!
Abaft there!
Shove ahead.
Keep a watch on the clock.
Chuckingout time.
Mullee!
What’s on you?
Ma mère m’a mariée.
British Beatitudes!
Ratamplan Digidi Bourn Bourn.
Ayes have it.
To be printed and bound at the Druiddrum press by two designing females.
Calf covers of pissedon green.
Last word in art shades.
Most beautiful book come out of Ireland my time.
Silentium!
Get a spurt on.
Tention.
Proceed to nearest canteen and there annex liquor stores.
March!
Tramp, tramp the boys are (attitudes!)
parching.
Beer, beef, business, bibles, bulldogs, battleships, buggery and bishops.
Whether on the scaffold high.
Beer-beef trample the bibles.
When for Irelandear.
Trample the trampellers.
Thunderation!
Keep the durned milling-tary step.
We fall.
Bishops’ boosebox.
Halt!
Heave to.
Rugger.
Scrum in.
No touch kicking.
Wow, my tootsies!
You hurt?
Most amazingly sorry!
Query.
Who’s astanding this here do?
Proud possessor of damnall.
Declare misery.
Bet to the ropes.
Me nantee saltee.
Not a red at me this week gone.
Yours?
Mead of our fathers for the Obermensck.
Dittoh.
Five number ones.
You, sir?
Ginger cordial.
Chase me, the cabby’s caudle.
Stimulate the caloric.
Winding of his ticker.
Stopped short never to go again when the old.
Absinthe for me, savvy?
Caramba !
Have an eggnog or a prairie oyster.
Enemy?
Avuncular’s got my timepiece.
Ten to.
Obligated awful.
Don’t mention it.
Got a pectoral trauma, eh, Dix?
Pos fact.
Got bet be a boomblebee whenever he was settin sleepin in hes bit garten.
Digs up near the Mater.
Buckled he is.
Know his dona?
Yup, sartin, I do.
Full of a dure.
See her in her dishybilly.
Peels off a credit.
Lovey lovekin.
None of your lean kine, not much.
Pull down the blind, love.
Two Ardilauns.
Same here.
Look slippery.
If you fall don’t wait to get up.
Five, seven, nine.
Fine!
Got a prime pair of mince-pies, no kid.
And her take me to rests and her anker of rum.
Must be seen to be believed.
Your starving eyes and allbeplastered neck you stole my heart, O gluepot.
Sir?
Spud again the rheumatiz?
All poppycock, you’ll scuse me saying.
For the hoi polloi.
I vear thee beest a gert vool.
Well, doc?
Back fro Lapland?
Your corporosity sagaci-ating OK?
How’s the squaws and papooses?
Woman-body after going on the straw?
Stand and deliver.
Password.
There’s hair.
Ours the white death and the ruddy birth.
Hi!
Spit in your own eye, boss.
Mummer’s wire.
Cribbed out of Meredith.
Jesified orchidised polydmical Jesuit!
Aunty mine’s writing Pa Kinch.
Baddybad Stephen lead astray goodygood Malachi.
Hurroo!
Collar the leather, youngun.
Roun wi the nappy.
Here, Jock braw Hielentman’s your barleybree.
Lang may your him reek and your kailpot boil!
My tipple.
Merci.
Here’s to us.
How’s that?
Leg before wicket.
Don’t stain my brandnew sitinems.
Give’s a shake of pepper, you there.
Catch aholt.
Caraway seed to carry away.
Twig?
Shrieks of silence.
Every cove to hisgentry mort.
Venus Pandemos.
Les petites femmes.
Bold bad girl from the town of Mullingar.
Tell her I was axing at her.
Hauding Sara by the wame.
On the road to Malahide.
Me?
If she who seduced me had left but the name.
What do you want for ninepence?
Machree, Macruiskeen.
Smutty Moll for a mattress jig.
And a pull alltogether.
Ex!
Waiting, guvnor?
Most deciduously.
Bet your boots on.
Stunned like seeing as how no shiners is acoming, Underconstumble?
He’ve got the chink ad lib.
Seed near free poun on un a spell ago a said war hisn.
Us come right in on your invite, see?
Up to you, matey.
Out with the oof.
Two bar and a wing.
You larn that go off of they there Frenchy bilks?
Won’t wash here for nuts nohow.
Lil chile vely solly.
Ise de cutest colour coon down our side.
Gawds teruth, Chawley.
We are nae fou.
We’re nae tha fou.
Au reservoir, Mossoo.
Tanks you.
‘Tis, sure.
What say?
In the speakeasy.
Tight.
I shee you, shir.
Bantam, two days teetee.
Bowsing nowt but claretwine.
Garn!
Have a glint, do.
Gum, I’m jiggered.
And been to barber he have.
Too full for words.
With a railway bloke.
How come you so?
Opera he’d like?
Rose of Castille.
Rows of cast.
Police!
Some H2O for a gent fainted.
Look at Bantam’s flowers.
Gemini, he’s going to holler.
The colleen bawn, my colleen bawn.
O, cheese it!
Shut his blurry Dutch oven with a firm hand.
Had the winner today till I tipped him a dead cert.
The ruffin cly the nab of Stephen.
Hand as give me the jady coppaleen.
He strike a telegramboy paddock wire big bug Bass to the depot.
Shove him a joey and grahamise.
Mare on form hot order.
Guinea to a goosegog.
Tell a cram, that.
Gospel-true.
Criminal diversion?
I think that yes.
Sure thing.
Land him in chokeechokee if the harman beck copped the game.
Madden back Madden’s a maddening back.
O, lust, our refuge and our strength.
Decamping.
Must you go?
Off to mammy.
Stand by.
Hide my blushes someone.
All in if he spots me.
Come-ahome, our Bantam.
Horryvar, mong vioo.
Dinna forget the cowslips for hersel.
Cornfide.
Wha gev ye thon cok?
Pal to pal.
Jannock.
Of John Thomas, her spouse.
No fake, old man Leo.
S’elp me, honest injun.
Shiver my timbers if I had.
There’s a great big holy friar.
Vyfor you no me tell?
Vel, I ses, if that aint a sheeny nachez, vel, I vil get misha mishinnah.
Through yerd our lord, Amen.
You move a motion?
