Suppose that communal kitchen years to come perhaps.
All trotting down with porringers and tommy-cans to be filled.
Devour contents in the street.
John Howard Parnell example the provost of Trinity every mother’s son don’t talk of your provosts and provost of Trinity women and children, cabmen, priests, parsons, fieldmarshals, archbishops.
From Ailesbury road, Clyde road, artisans’ dwellings, north Dublin union, lord mayor in his gingerbread coach, old queen in a bath-chair.
My plate’s empty.
After you with our incorporated drinkingcup.
Like sir Philip Crampton’s fountain.
Rub off the microbes with your handkerchief.
Next chap rubs on a new batch with his.
Father O’Flynn would make hares of them all.
Have rows all the same.
All for number one.
Children fighting for the scrapings of the pot.
Want a soup pot as big as the Phoenix Park.
Harpooning flitches and hindquarters out of it.
Hate people all round you.
City Arms hotel table d’hôte she called it.
Soup, joint and sweet.
Never know whose thoughts you’re chewing.
Then who’d wash up all the plates and forks?
Might be all feeding on tabloids that time.
Teeth getting worse and worse.
After all there’s a lot in that vegetarian fine flavour of things from the earth garlic, of course, it stinks Italian organgrinders crisp of onions, mushrooms truffles.
Pain to animal too.
Pluck and draw fowl.
Wretched brutes there at the cattlemarket waiting for the poleaxe to split their skulls open.
Moo.
Poor trembling calves.
Meh.
Staggering bob.
Bubble and squeak.
Butchers’ buckets wobble lights.
Give us that brisket off the hook.
Plup.
Rawhead and bloody bones.
Flayed glasseyed sheep hung from their haunches, sheepsnouts bloody-papered snivelling nosejam on sawdust.
Top and lashers going out.
Don’t maul them pieces, young one.
Hot fresh blood they prescribe for decline.
Blood always needed.
Insidious.
Lick it up, smoking hot, thick sugary.
Famished ghosts.
Ah, I’m hungry.
He entered Davy Byrne’s.
Moral pub.
He doesn’t chat.
Stands a drink now and then.
But in leapyear once in four.
Cashed a cheque for me once.
What will I take now?
He drew his watch.
Let me see now.
Shandygaff?
—Hellow, Bloom!
Nosey Flynn said from his nook.
—Hello, Flynn.
—How’s things?
—Tiptop…Let me see.
I’ll take a glass of burgundy and…let me see.
Sardines on the shelves.
Almost taste them by looking.
Sandwich?
Ham and his descendants mustered and bred there.
Potted meats.
What is home without Plumtree’s potted meat?
Incomplete.
What a stupid ad!
Under the obituary notices they stuck it.
All up a plumtree.
Dignam’s potted meat.
Cannibals would with lemon and rice.
White missionary too salty.
Like pickled pork.
Expect the chief consumes the parts of honour.
Ought to be tough from exercise.
His wives in a row to watch the effect.
There was a right royal old nigger.
Who ate or something the somethings of the reverend Mr MacTrigger.
With it an abode of bliss.
Lord knows what concoction.
Cauls mouldy tripes windpipes faked and minced up.
Puzzle find the meat.
Kosher.
No meat and milk together.
Hygiene that was what they call now.
Yom Kippur fast spring cleaning of inside.
Peace and war depend on some fellow’s digestion.
Religions.
Christmas turkeys and geese.
Slaughter of innocents.
Eat, drink and be merry.
Then casual wards full after.
Heads bandaged.
Cheese digests all but itself.
Mighty cheese.
—Have you a cheese sandwich?
—Yes, sir.
Like a few olives too if they had them.
Italian I prefer.
Good glass of burgundy; take away that.
Lubricate.
A nice salad, cool as a cucumber.
Tom Kernan can dress.
Puts gusto into it.
Pure olive oil.
Milly served me that cutlet with a sprig of parsley.
Take one Spanish onion.
God made food, the devil the cooks.
Devilled crab.
—Wife well?
—Quite well, thanks…A cheese sandwich, then.
Gorgonzola, have you?
—Yes, sir.
Nosey Flynn sipped his grog.
—Doing any singing those times?
Look at his mouth.
Could whistle in his own ear.
Flap ears to match.
Music.
Knows as much about it as my coachman.
Still better tell him.
Does no harm.
Free ad.
—She’s engaged for a big tour end of this month.
You may have heard perhaps.
—No.
O, that’s the style.
Who’s getting it up?
The curate served.
—How much is that?
—Seven d., sir…Thank you, sir.
Mr Bloom cut his sandwich into slender strips.
Mr MacTrigger.
Easier than the dreamy creamy stuff.
His five hundred wives.
Had the time of their lives.
—Mustard, sir?
—Thank you.
He studded under each lifted strip yellow blobs.
Their lives.
I have it.
It grew bigger and bigger and bigger.
—Getting it up?
he said.
Well, it’s like a company idea, you see.
Part shares and part profits.
—Ay, now I remember, Nosey Flynn said, putting his hand in his pocket to scratch his groin.
Who is this was telling me?
Isn’t Blazes Boylan mixed up in it?
A warm shock of air heat of mustard hauched on Mr Bloom’s heart.
He raised his eyes and met the stare of a bilious dock.
Two.
Pub clock five minutes fast.
Time going on.
Hands moving.
Two.
Not yet.
His midriff yearned then upward, sank within him, yearned more longly, longingly.
Wine.
He smellsipped the cordial juice and, bidding his throat strongly to speed it, set his wineglass delicately down.
—Yes, he said.
He’s the organiser in point of fact.
No fear.
No brains.
Nosey Flynn snuffled and scratched.
Flea having a good square meal.
—He had a good slice of luck, Jack Mooney was telling me, over that boxing match Myler Keogh won again that soldier in the Portobello barracks.
By God, he had the little kipper down in the county Carlow he was telling me…  Hope that dewdrop doesn’t come down into his glass.
No, snuffled it up.
—For near a month, man, before it came off.
Sucking duck eggs by God till further orders.
Keep him off the boose, see?
O, by God, Blazes is a hairy chap.
Davy Byrne came forward from the hindbar in tuckstitched shirtsleeves, cleaning his lips with two wipes of his napkin.
Herring’s blush.
Whose smile upon each feature plays with such and such replete.
Too much fat on the parsnips.
—And here’s himself and pepper on him, Nosey Flynn said.
Can you give us a good one for the Gold cup?
—I’m off that, Mr Flynn, Davy Byrne answered.
I never put anything on a horse.
—You’re right there, Nosey Flynn said.
Mr Bloom ate his strips of sandwich, fresh clean bread, with relish of disgust, pungent mustard, the feety savour of green cheese.
Sips of his wine soothed his palate.
Not logwood that.
Tastes fuller this weather with the chill off.
Nice quiet bar.
Nice piece of wood in that counter.
Nicely planed.
Like the way it curves there.
—I wouldn’t do anything at all in that line, Davy Byrne said.
It ruined many a man the same horses.
Vintners’ sweepstake.
Licensed for the sale of beer, wine and spirits for consumption on the premises.
Heads I win tails you lose.
—True for you.
Nosey Flynn said.
Unless you’re in the know.
There’s no straight sport now.
Lenehan gets some good ones.
He’s giving Sceptre today.
Zinfandel’s the favourite, lord Howard de Walden’s, won at Epsom.
Morny Cannon is riding him.
I could have got seven to one against Saint Amant a fortnight before.
—That so?
Davy Byrne said…  He went towards the window and, taking up the petty cash book, scanned its pages.
—I could, faith, Nosey Flynn said snuffling.
That was a rare bit of horseflesh.
Saint Frusquin was her sire.
She won in a thunderstorm, Rothschild’s filly, with wadding in her ears.
Blue jacket and yellow cap.
Bad luck to big Ben Dollard and his John O’Gaunt.
He put me off it.
Ay.
He drank resignedly from his tumbler, running his fingers down the flutes.
—Ay, he said, sighing.
Mr Bloom, champing standing, looked upon his sigh.
Nosey numskull.
Will I tell him that horse Lenehan?
He knows already.
Better let him forget.
Go and lose more.
Fool and his money.
Dewdrop coming down again.
Cold nose he’d have kissing a woman.
Still they might like.
Prickly beards they like.
Dog’s cold noses.
Old Mrs Riordan with the rumbling stomach’s Skye terrier in the City Arms hotel.
Molly fondling him in her lap.
O the big doggy-bowwowsywowsy!
Wine soaked and softened rolled pith of bread mustard a moment mawkish cheese.
Nice wine it is.
Taste it better because I’m not thirsty.
Bath of course does that.
Just a bite or two.
Then about six o’clock I can.
Six, six.
Time will be gone then.
She…  Mild fire of wine kindled his veins.
I wanted that badly.
Felt so off colour.
His eyes unhungrily saw shelves of tins, sardines, gaudy lobsters’ claws.
All the odd things people pick up for food.
Out of shells, periwinkles with a pin, off trees, snails out of the ground the French eat, out of the sea with bait on a hook.
Silly fish learn nothing in a thousand years.
If you didn’t know risky putting anything into your mouth.
Poisonous berries.
Johnny Magories.
Roundness you think good.
Gaudy colour warns you off.
One fellow told another and so on.
Try it on die dog first.
Led on by the smell or the look.
Tempting fruit.
Ice cones.
Cream.
Instinct.
Orangegroves for instance.
Need artificial irrigation.
Bleibtreustrasse.
Yes but what about oysters?
Unsightly like a clot of phlegm.
Filthy shells.
Devil to open them too.
Who found them out?
Garbage, sewage they feed on.
Fizz and Red bank oysters.
Effect on the sexual.
Aphrodis.
He was in the Red bank this morning.
Was he oyster old fish at table.
Perhaps he young flesh in bed.
No.
June has no ar no oysters.
But there are people like tainted game.
Jugged hare.
First catch your hare.
Chinese eating eggs fifty years old, blue and green again.
Dinner of thirty courses.
Each dish harmless might mix inside.
Idea for a poison mystery.
That archduke Leopold was it?
No.
Yes, or was it Otto one of those Habsburgs?
Or who was it used to eat the scruff off his own head?
Cheapest lunch in town.
Of course, aristocrats.
Then the others copy to be in the fashion.
Milly too rock oil and flour.
Raw pastry I like myself.
Half the catch of oysters they throw back in the sea to keep up the price.
Cheap.
No one would buy.
Caviare.
Do the grand.
Hock in green glasses.
Swell blowout.
Lady this.
Powdered bosom pearls, The elite.
Créme de la crème.
They want special dishes to pretend they’re.
Hermit with a platter of pulse keep down the stings of the flesh.
Know me come eat with me.
Royal sturgeon.
High sheriff, Coffey, the butcher, right to venisons of the forest from his ex.
Send him back the half of a cow.
Spread I saw down in the Master of the Rolls’ kitchen area.
Whitehatted chef like a rabbi.
Combustible duck.
Curly cabbage à la duchesse de Panne.
Just as well to write it on the bill of fare so you can know what you’ve eaten too many drugs spoil the broth.
I know it myself.
Dosing it with Edwards’ desiccated soup.
Geese stuffed silly for them.
Lobsters boiled alive.
Do ptake some ptarmigan.
Wouldn’t mind being a waiter in a swell hotel.
Tips, evening dress, halfnaked ladies.
May I tempt you to a little more filleted lemon sole, miss Dubedat?
Yes, do bedad.
And she did bedad.
Huguenot name I expect that.
A miss Dubedat lived in Killiney I remember.
Du, de la, French.
Still it’s the same fish, perhaps old Micky Hanlon of Moore street ripped the guts out of making money, hand over fist, finger in fishes’ gills, can’t write his name on a cheque, think he was painting the landscape with his mouth twisted.
Moooikill A Aitcha Ha.
Ignorant as a kish of brogues, worth fifty thousand pounds.
Stuck on the pane two flies buzzed, stuck.
Glowing wine on his palate lingered swallowed.
Crushing in the winepress grapes of Burgundy.
Sun’s heat it is.
Seems to a secret touch telling me memory.
Touched his sense moistened remembered.
Hidden under wild ferns on Howth.
Below us bay sleeping sky.
No sound.
The sky.
The bay purple by the Lion’s head.
Green by Drumleck.
Yellowgreen towards Sutton.
Fields of undersea, the lines faint brown in grass, buried cities.
Pillowed on my coat she had her hair, earwigs in the heather scrub my hand under her nape, you’ll toss me all.
O wonder!
Coolsoft with ointments her hand touched me, caressed: her eyes upon me did not turn away.
Ravished over her I lay, full lips full open, kissed her mouth.
Yum.
Softly she gave me in my mouth the seedcake warm and chewed.
Mawkish pulp her mouth had mumbled sweet and sour with spittle.
Joy: I ate it: joy.
Young life, her lips that gave me pouting.
Soft, warm, sticky gumjelly lips.
Flowers her eyes were, take me, willing eyes.
Pebbles fell.
She lay still.
A goat.
No-one.
High on Ben Howth rhododendrons a nannygoat walking surefooted, dropping currants.
Screened under ferns she laughed warmfolded.
Wildly I lay on her, kissed her; eyes, her lips, her stretched neck, beating, woman’s breasts full in her blouse of nun’s veiling, fat nipples upright.
Hot I tongued her.
She kissed me.
I was kissed.
All yielding she tossed my hair.
Kissed, she kissed me.
Me.
And me now.
Stuck, the flies buzzed.
His downcast eyes followed the silent veining of the oaken slab.
Beauty: it curves, curves are beauty.
Shapely goddesses, Venus, Juno: curves the world admires.
Can see them library museum standing in the round hall, naked goddesses.
Aids to digestion.
They don’t care what man looks.
All to see.
Never speaking, I mean to say to fellows like Flynn.
Suppose she did Pygmalion and Galatea what would she say first?
Mortal!
Put you in your proper place.
Quaffing nectar at mess with gods, golden dishes, all ambrosial.
Not like a tanner lunch we have, boiled mutton, carrots and turnips, bottle of Allsop.
Nectar, imagine it drinking electricity: gods’ food.
Lovely forms of woman sculped Junonian.
Immortal lovely.
And we stuffing food in one hole and out behind: food, chyle, blood, dung, earth, food: have to feed it like stoking an engine.
They have no.
Never looked.
I’ll look today.
Keeper won’t see.
Bend down let something fall see if she.
Dribbling a quiet message from his bladder came to go to do not to do there to do.
A man and ready he drained his glass to the lees and walked, to men too they gave themselves, manly conscious, lay with men lovers, a youth enjoyed her, to the yard.
When the sound of his boots had ceased Davy Byrne said from his book:  —What is this he is?
Isn’t he in the insurance line?
—He’s out of that long ago, Nosey Flynn said.
He does canvassing for the Freeman.
—I know him well to see, Davy Byrne said.
Is he in trouble?
