Body getting a bit softy.
I would notice that from remembering.
What causes that I suppose the skin can’t contract quickly enough when the flesh falls off.
But the shape is there.
The shape is there still.
Shoulders.
Hips.
Plump.
Night of the dance dressing.
Shift stuck between the cheeks behind.
He clasped his hands between his knees and, satisfied, sent his vacant glance over their faces.
Mr Power asked:  —How is the concert tour getting on, Bloom?
—O very well, Mr Bloom said.
I hear great accounts of it.
It’s a good idea, you see…  —Are you going yourself?
—Well no, Mr Bloom said.
In point of fact I have to go down to the county Clare on some private business.
You see the idea is to tour the chief towns.
What you lose on one you can make up on the other.
—Quite so, Martin Cunningham said.
Mary Anderson is up there now.
—Have you good artists?
—Louis Werner is touring her, Mr Bloom said.
O yes, we’ll have all topnobbers.
J. C. Doyle and John MacCormack I hope and.
The best, in fact.
—And Madame, Mr Power said, smiling.
Last but not least.
Mr Bloom unclasped his hands in a gesture of soft politeness and clasped them.
Smith O’Brien.
Someone has laid a bunch of flowers there.
Woman.
Must be his deathday.
For many happy returns.
The carriage wheeling by Farrell’s statue united noiselessly their unresisting knees.
Oot: a dullgarbed old man from the curbstone tendered his wares, his mouth opening: oot.
—Four bootlaces for a penny.
Wonder why he was struck off the rolls.
Had his office in Hume street.
Same house as Molly’s namesake.
Tweedy, crown solicitor for Waterford.
Has that silk hat ever since.
Relics of old decency.
Mourning too.
Terrible comedown, poor wretch!
Kicked about like snuff at a wake.
O’Callaghan on his last legs.
And Madame.
Twenty past eleven.
Up.
Mrs Fleming is in to clean.
Doing her hair, humming: voglio e non vorrei.
No: vorrei e non.
Looking at the tips of her hairs to see if they are split.
Mi trema un poco il.
Beautiful on that tre her voice is: weeping tone.
A thrust.
A throstle.
There is a word throstle that expressed that.
His eyes passed lightly over Mr Power’s goodlooking face.
Greyish over the ears.
Madame: smiling.
I smiled back.
A smile goes a long way.
Only politeness perhaps.
Nice fellow.
Who knows is that true about the woman he keeps?
Not pleasant for the wife.
Yet they say, who was it told me, there is no carnal.
You would imagine that would get played out pretty quick.
Yes, it was Crofton met him one evening bringing her a pound of rumpsteak.
What is this she was?
Barmaid in Jury’s.
Or the Moira, was it?
They passed under the hugecloaked Liberator’s form.
Martin Cunningham nudged Mr Power.
—Of the tribe of Reuben, he said.
A tall blackbearded figure, bent on a stick, stumping round the corner of Elvery’s elephant house showed them a curved hand open on his spine.
—In all his pristine beauty, Mr Power said.
Mr Dedalus looked after the stumping figure and said mildly:  —The devil break the hasp of your back!
Mr Power, collapsing in laughter, shaded his face from the window as the carriage passed Gray’s statue.
—We have all been there, Martin Cunningham said broadly.
His eyes met Mr Bloom’s eyes.
He caressed his beard, adding:  —Well, nearly all of us.
Mr Bloom began to speak with sudden eagerness to his companions’ faces.
—That’s an awfully good one that’s going the rounds about Reuben J. and the son.
—About the boatman?
Mr Power asked.
—Yes.
Isn’t it awfully good?
—What is that?
Mr Dedalus asked.
I didn’t hear it.
—There was a girl in the case, Mr Bloom began, and he determined to send him to the isle of Man out of harm’s way but when they were both…  —What?
Mr Dedalus asked.
That confirmed bloody hobbledehoy is it?
—Yes, Mr Bloom said.
They were both on the way to the boat and he tried to drown…  —Drown Barabbas!
Mr Dedalus cried.
I wish to Christ he did!
Mr Power sent a long laugh down his shaded nostrils.
—No, Mr Bloom said, the son himself….
Martin Cunningham thwarted his speech rudely.
—Reuben J. and the son were piking it down the quay next the river on their way to die isle of Man boat and the young chiseller suddenly got loose and over the wall with him into the Liffey.
—For God’s sake!
Mr Dedalus exclaimed in fright.
Is he dead?
—Dead!
Martin Cunningham cried.
Not he!
A boatman got a pole and fished him out by the slack of the breeches and he was landed up to the father on the quay.
More dead than alive.
Half the town was there.
—Yes, Mr Bloom said.
But the funny part is…  —And Reuben J., Martin Cunningham said, gave the boatman a florin for saving his son’s life.
A stifled sigh came from under Mr Power’s hand.
—O, he did, Martin Cunningham affirmed.
Like a hero.
A silver florin.
—Isn’t it awfully good?
Mr Bloom said eagerly.
—One and eightpence too much, Mr Dedalus said drily.
Mr Power’s choked laugh burst quietly in the carriage.
Nelson’s pillar.
—Eight plums a penny!
Eight for a penny!
—We had better look a little serious, Martin Cunningham said.
Mr Dedalus sighed.
—And then indeed, he said, poor little Paddy wouldn’t grudge us a laugh.
Many a good one he told himself.
—The Lord forgive me!
Mr Power said, wiping his wet eyes with his fingers.
Poor Paddy!
I little thought aweek ago when I saw him last and he was in his usual health that I’d be driving after him like this.
He’s gone from us.
—As decent a little man as ever wore a hat, Mr Dedalus said.
He went very suddenly.
—Breakdown, Martin Cunningham said.
Heart.
He tapped his chest sadly.
Blazing face: redhot.
Too much John Barleycorn.
Cure for a red nose.
Drink like the devil till it turns adelite.
A lot of money he spent colouring it.
Mr Power gazed at the passing houses with rueful apprehension.
—He had a sudden death, poor fellow, he said.
—The best death, Mr Bloom said.
Their wide open eyes looked at him.
—No suffering, he said.
A moment and all is over.
Like dying in sleep.
No-one spoke.
Dead side of the street this.
Dull business by day, land agents, temperance hotel, Falconer’s railway guide, civil service college, Gill’s, catholic club, the industrious blind.
Why?
Some reason.
Sun or wind.
At night too.
Chummies and slaveys.
Under the patronage of the late Father Mathew.
Foundation stone for Parnell.
Breakdown.
Heart.
White horses with white frontlet plumes came round the Rotunda corner, galloping.
A tiny coffin flashed by.
In a hurry to bury.
A mourning coach.
Unmarried.
Black for the married.
Piebald for bachelors.
Dun for a nun.
—Sad, Martin Cunningham said.
A child.
A dwarf’s face mauve and wrinkled like little Rudy’s was.
Dwarf’s body, weak as putty, in a whitelined deal box.
Burial friendly society pays.
Penny a week for a sod of turf.
Our.
Little.
Beggar.
Baby.
Meant nothing.
Mistake of nature.
If it’s healthy it’s from the mother.
If not the man.
Better luck next time.
—Poor little thing, Mr Dedalus said.
It’s well out of it.
The carriage climbed more slowly the hill of Rutland square.
Rattle his bones.
Over the stones.
Only a pauper.
Nobody owns.
—In the midst of life, Martin Cunningham said.
—But the worst of all, Mr Power said, is the man who takes his own life.
Martin Cunningham drew out his watch briskly, coughed and put it back.
—The greatest disgrace to have in the family, Mr Power added.
—Temporary insanity, of course, Martin Cunningham said decisively.
We must take a charitable view of it.
—They say a man who does it is a coward, Mr Dedalus said.
—It is not for us to judge, Martin Cunningham said.
Mr Bloom, about to speak, closed his lips again.
Martin Cunningham’s large eyes.
Looking away now.
Sympathetic human man he is.
Intelligent.
Like Shakespeare’s face.
Always a good word to say.
They have no mercy on that here or infanticide.
Refuse Christian burial.
They used to drive a stake of wood through his heart in the grave.
As if it wasn’t broken already.
Yet sometimes they repent too late.
Found in the riverbed clutching rushes.
He looked at me.
And that awful drunkard of a wife of his.
Setting up house for her time after time and then pawning the furniture on him every Saturday almost.
Leading him the life of the damned.
Wear the heart out of a stone, that.
Monday morning start afresh.
Shoulder to the wheel.
Lord, she must have looked a sight that night, Dedalus told me he was in there.
Drunk about the place and capering with Martin’s umbrella:  And they call me the jewel of Asia,  Of Asia,  The geisha.
He looked away from me.
He knows.
Rattle his bones.
That afternoon of the inquest.
The redlabelled bottle on the table.
The room in the hotel with hunting pictures.
Stuffy it was.
Sunlight through the slats of the Venetian blinds.
The coroner’s ears, big and hairy.
Boots giving evidence.
Thought he was asleep first.
Then saw like yellow streaks on his face.
Had slipped down to the foot of the bed.
Verdict: overdose.
Death by misadventure.
The letter.
For my son Leopold.
No more pain.
Wake no more.
Nobody owns.
The carriage rattled swiftly along Blessington street.
Over the stones.
—We are going the pace, I think, Martin Cunningham said.
—God grant he doesn’t upset us on the road, Mr Power said.
—I hope not, Martin Cunningham said.
That will be a great race tomorrow in Germany.
The Gordon Bennett.
—Yes, by Jove, Mr Dedalus said.
That will be worth seeing, faith.
As they turned into Berkeley street a streetorgan near the Basin sent over and after them a rollicking rattling song of the halls.
Has anybody here seen Kelly?
Kay ee double ell wy.
Dead march from Saul.
He’s as bad as old Antonio.
He left me on my ownio.
Pirouette!
The Mater Misericordiae.
Eccles street.
My house down there.
Big place.
Ward for incurables there.
Very encouraging.
Our Lady’s Hospice for the dying.
Deadhouse handy underneath.
Where old Airs Riordan died.
They look terrible the women.
Her feeding cup and rubbing her mouth with the spoon.
Then the screen round her bed for her to die.
Nice young student that was dressed that bite the bee gave me.
He’s gone over to the lying-in hospital they told me.
From one extreme to the other.
The carriage galloped round a corner: stopped.
—What’s wrong now?
A divided drove of branded cattle passed the windows, lowing, slouching by on padded hoofs, whisking their tails slowly on their clotted bony croups.
Outside them and through them ran raddled sheep bleating their fear.
—Emigrants, Mr Power said.
—Huuuh!
the drover’s voice cried, his switch sounding on their flanks.
Huuuh!
Out of that!
Thursday of course.
Tomorrow is killing day.
Springers.
Cuffe sold them about twentyseven quid each.
For Liverpool probably.
Roast beef for old England.
They buy up all the juicy ones.
And then the fifth quarter is lost: all that raw stuff, hide, hair, horns.
Comes to a big thing in a year.
Dead meat trade.
Byproducts of the slaughterhouses for tanneries, soap, margarine.
Wonder if that dodge works now getting dicky meat off the train at Clonsilla.
The carriage moved on through the drove.
—I can’t make out why the corporation doesn’t run a tramline from the parkgate to the quays, Mr Bloom said.
All those animals could be taken in trucks down to the boats.
—Instead of blocking up the thoroughfare, Martin Cunningham said.
Quite right.
They ought to.
—Yes, Mr Bloom said, and another thing I often thought is to have municipal funeral trams like they have in Milan, you know.
Run the line out to the cemetery gates and have special trams, hearse and carriage and all.
Don’t you see what I mean?
—O that be damned for a story, Mr Dedalus said.
Pullman car and saloon diningroom.
—A poor lookout for Corny, Mr Power added.
—Why?
Mr Bloom asked, turning to Mr Dedalus.
Wouldn’t it be more decent than galloping two abreast?
—Well, there’s something in that, Mr Dedalus granted.
—And, Martin Cunningham said, we wouldn’t have scenes like that when the hearse capsized round Dunphy’s and upset the coffin on to the road.
—That was terrible, Mr Power’s shocked face said, and the corpse fell about the road.
Terrible!
—First round Dunphy’s, Mr Dedalus said, nodding.
Gordon Bennett cup.
—Praises be to God!
Martin Cunningham said piously.
Bom!
Upset.
A coffin bumped out on to the road.
Burst open.
Paddy Dignam shot out and rolling over stiff in the dust in a brown habit too large for him.
Red face: grey now.
Mouth fallen open.
Asking what’s up now.
Quite right to close it.
Looks horrid open.
Then the insides decompose quickly.
Much better to close up all the orifices.
Yes, also.
With wax.
The sphincter loose.
Seal up all.
—Dunphy’s, Mr Power announced as the carriage turned right.
Dunphy’s corner.
Mourning coaches drawn up drowning their grief.
A pause by the wayside.
Tiptop position for a pub.
Expect we’ll pull up here on the way back to drink his health.
Pass round the consolation.
Elixir of life.
But suppose now it did happen.
Would he bleed if a nail say cut him in the knocking about?
He would and he wouldn’t, I suppose.
Depends on where.
The circulation stops.
Still some might ooze out of an artery.
It would be better to bury them in red: a dark red.
In silence they drove along Phibsborough road.
An empty hearse trotted by, coming from the cemetery: looks relieved.
Crossguns bridge: the royal canal.
Water rushed roaring through the sluices.
A man stood on his dropping barge between clamps of turf.
On the towpath by the lock a slacktethered horse.
Aboard of the Bugabu.
Their eyes watched him.
On the slow weedy waterway he had floated on his raft coastward over Ireland drawn by a haulage rope past beds of reeds, over slime, mud-choked bottles, carrion dogs.
Athlone, Mullingar, Moyvalley, I could make a walking tour to see Milly by the canal.
Or cycle down.
Hire some old crock, safety.
Wren had one die other day at the auction but a lady’s.
Developing waterways.
James M‘Cann’s hobby to row me o’er the ferry.
Cheaper transit.
By easy stages.
Houseboats.
Camping out.
Also hearses.
To heaven by water.
Perhaps I will without writing.
Come as a surprise, Leixlip, Clonsilla.
Dropping down, lock by lock to Dublin.
With turf from the midland bogs.
Salute.
He lifted his brown strawhat, saluting Paddy Dignam.
They drove on past Brian Boroimhe house.
Near it now.
—I wonder how is our friend Fogarty getting on, Mr Power said.
—Better ask Tom Kernan, Mr Dedalus said.
—How is that?
Martin Cunningham said.
Left him weeping I suppose.
—Though lost to sight, Mr Dedalus said, to memory dear.
The carriage steered left for Finglas road.
The stonecutter’s yard on the right.
Last lap.
Crowded on the spit of land silent shapes appeared, white, sorrowful, holding out calm hands, knelt in grief, pointing.
Fragments of shapes, hewn.
In white silence: appealing.
The best obtainable.
Thos.
H. Dennany, monumental builder and sculptor.
Passed.
On the curbstone before Jimmy Geary the sexton’s an old tramp sat, grumbling, emptying the dirt and stones out of his huge dustbrown yawning boot.
After life’s journey.
Gloomy gardens then went by, one by one: gloomy houses.
Mr Power pointed.
—That is where Childs was murdered, he said.
