—And what do you think, says Joe, of the holy boys, the priests and bishops of Ireland doing up his room in Maynooth in his Satanic Majesty’s racing colours and sticking up pictures of all the horses his jockeys rode.
The earl of Dublin, no less.
—They ought to have stuck up all the women he rode himself, says little Alf.
And says J. J.:  —Considerations of space influenced their lordship’s decision.
—Will you try another, citizen?
says Joe.
—Yes, sir, says he, I will.
—You?
says Joe.
—Beholden to you, Joe, says I.
May your shadow never grow less.
—Repeat that dose, says Joe.
Bloom was talking and talking with John Wyse and he quite excited with his dunducketymudcoloured mug on him and his old plumeyes rolling about.
—Persecution, says he, all the history of the world is full of it.
Perpetuating national hatred among nations.
—But do you know what a nation means?
says John Wyse  —Yes, says Bloom.
—What is it?
says John Wyse.
—A nation?
says Bloom.
A nation is the same people living in the same place.
—By God, then, says Ned, laughing, if that’s so I’m a nation for I’m living in the same place for the past five years.
So of course everyone had a laugh at Bloom and says he, trying to muck out of it:  —Or also living in different places.
—That covers my case, says Joe.
—What is your nation if I may ask, says the citizen.
—Ireland, says Bloom.
I was born here.
Ireland.
The citizen said nothing only cleared the spit out of his gullet and, gob, he spat a Red bank oyster out of him right in the corner.
—After you with the push, Joe, says he, taking out his handkerchief to swab himself dry.
—Here you are, citizen, says Joe.
Take that in your right hand and repeat after me the following words.
The muchtreasured and intricately embroidered ancient Irish facecloth attributed to Solomon of Droma and Manus Tomaltach og MacDonogh, authors of the Book of Ballymote, was then carefully produced and called forth prolonged admiration.
No need to dwell on the legendary beauty of the cornerpieces, the acme of art, wherein one can distinctly discern each of the four evangelists in turn presenting to each of the four masters his evangelical symbol a bogoak sceptre, a North American puma (a far nobler king of beasts than the British article, be it said in passing), a Kerry calf and a golden eagle from Carrantuohill.
The scenes depicted on the emunctory field, showing our ancient duns and raths and cromlechs and grianauns and seats of learning and maledictive stones, are as wonderfully beautiful and the pigments as delicate as when the Sligo illuminators gave free rein to their artistic fantasy long long ago in the time of the Barmecides.
Glendalough, the lovely lakes of Killarney, the ruins of Clonmacnois, Cong Abbey, Glen Inagh and the Twelve Pins, Ireland’s Eye, the Green Hills of Tallaght, Croagh Patrick, the brewery of Messrs Arthur Guinness, Son and Company (Limited), Lough Neagh’s banks, the vale of Ovoca, Isolde’s tower, the Mapas obelisk, Sir Patrick Dun’s hospital, Cape Clear, the glen of Aherlow, Lynch’s castle, the Scotch house, Rathdown Union Workhouse at Loughlinstown, Tullamore jail, Castleconnel rapids, Kilballymacshonakill, the cross at Monasterboice, Jury’s Hotel, S. Patrick’s Purgatory, the Salmon Leap, May-nooth college refectory, Curley’s hole, the three birthplaces of the first duke of Wellington, the rock of Cashel, the bog of Allen, the Henry Street Warehouse, Fingal’s Cave—all these moving scenes are still there for us today rendered more beautiful still by the waters of sorrow which have passed over them and by the rich incrustations of time.
—Shove us over the drink, says I.
Which is which?
—That’s mine, says Joe.
as the devil said to the dead policeman.
—And I belong to a race too, says Bloom, that is hated and persecuted.
Also now.
This very moment.
This very instant.
Gob, he near burnt his fingers with the butt of his old cigar.
—Robbed, says he.
Plundered.
Insulted.
Persecuted.
Taking what belongs to us by right.
At this very moment, says he, putting up his fist, sold by auction off in Morocco like slaves or catties.
—Are you talking about the new Jerusalem?
says the citizen.
—I’m talking about injustice, says Bloom.
—Right, says John Wyse.
Stand up to it then with force like men.
That’s an almanac picture for you.
Mark for a soft-nosed bullet.
Old lardyface standing up to the business end of a gun.
Gob, he’d adorn a sweepingbrush, so he would, if he only had a nurse’s apron on him.
And then he collapses all of a sudden, twisting around all the opposite, as limp as a wet rag.
—But it’s no use, says he.
Force, hatred, history, all that.
That’s not life for men and women, insult and hatred.
And everybody knows that it’s the very opposite of that that is really life.
—What?
says Alf.
—Love, says Bloom.
I mean the opposite of hatred.
I must go now, says he to John Wyse.
Just round to the court a moment to see if Martin is there.
If he comes just say I’ll be back in a second.
Just a moment.
Who’s hindering you?
And off he pops like greased lightning.
—A new apostle to the gentiles, says the citizen.
Universal love.
—Well, says John Wyse, isn’t that what we’re told?
Love your neighbours.
—That chap?
says the citizen.
Beggar my neighbour is his motto.
Love, Moya!
He’s a nice pattern of a Romeo and Juliet.
Love loves to love love.
Nurse loves the new chemist.
Constable 14A loves Mary Kelly.
Gerty MacDowell loves the boy that has the bicycle.
M. B. loves a fair gentleman.
Li Chi Han lovey up kissy Cha Pu Chow.
Jumbo, the elephant, loves Alice, the elephant.
Old Mr Verschoyle with the ear trumpet loves old Mrs Ver-schoyle with the turnedin eye.
The man in the brown macintosh loves a lady who is dead.
His Majesty the King loves Her Majesty the Queen.
Mrs Norman W. Tupper loves officer Taylor.
You love a certain person.
And this person loves that other person because everybody loves somebody but God loves everybody.
—Well, Joe, says I, your very good health and song.
More power, citizen.
—Hurrah, there, says Joe.
—The blessing of God and Mary and Patrick on you, says the citizen.
And he ups with his pint to wet his whistle.
—We know those canters, says he, preaching and picking your pocket.
What about sanctimonious Cromwell and his ironsides that put the women and children of Drogheda to the sword with the bible text God is love pasted round the mouth of his cannon?
The bible!
Did you read that skit in the United Irishman today about that Zulu chief that’s visiting England?
—What’s that?
says Joe.
So the citizen takes up one of his paraphernalia papers and he starts reading out:  —A delegation of the chief cotton magnates of Manchester was presented yesterday to His Majesty the Alaki of Abeakuta by Gold Stick in Waiting, Lord Walkup on Eggs, to tender to His Majesty the heartfelt thanks of British traders for the facilities afforded them in his dominions.
The delegation partook of luncheon at the conclusion of which the dusky potentate, in the course of a happy speech, freely translated by the British chaplain, the reverend Ananias Praisegod Barebones, tendered his best thanks to Massa Walkup and emphasised the cordial relations existing between Abeakuta and the British Empire, stating that he treasured as one of his dearest possessions an illuminated bible, the volume of the word of God and the secret of England’s greatness, graciously presented to him by the white chief woman, the great squaw Victoria, with a personal dedication from the august hand of the Royal Donor.
The Alaki then drank a lovingcup of firstshot usquebaugh to the toast Black and White from the skull of his immediate predecessor in the dynasty Kakachakachak, surnamed Forty Warts, after which he visited the chief factory of Cottonopolis and signed his mark in the visitors’ book, subsequently executing an old Abeakutic wardance, in the course of which he swallowed several knives and forks, amid hilarious applause from the girl hands.
—Widow woman, says Ned, I wouldn’t doubt her.
Wonder did he put that bible to the same use as I would.
—Same only more so, says Lenehan.
And thereafter in that fruitful land the broadleaved mango flourished exceedingly.
—Is that by Griffith?
says John Wyse.
—No, says the citizen.
It’s not signed Shanganagh.
It’s only initialled: P.  —And a very good initial too, says Joe.
—That’s how it’s worked, says the citizen.
Trade follows the flag.
—Well, says J. J., if they’re any worse than those Belgians in the Congo Free State they must be bad.
Did you read that report by a man what’s this his name is?
—Casement, says the citizen.
He’s an Irishman.
—Yes, that’s the man, says J. J. Raping the women and girls and flogging the natives on the belly to squeeze all the red rubber they can out of them.
—I know where he’s gone, says Lenehan, cracking his fingers.
—Who?
says I.
—Bloom, says he, the courthouse is a bund.
He had a few bob on Throwaway and he’s gone to gather in the shekels.
—Is it that whiteyed kaffir?
says the citizen, that never backed a horse in anger in his life.
—That’s wherehe’s gone, says Lenehan.
I met Bantam Lyons going to back that horse only I put him off it and he told me Bloom gave him the tip.
Bet you what you like he has a hundred shillings to five on.
He’s the only man in Dublin has it.
A dark horse.
—He’s a bloody dark horse himself, says Joe.
—Mind, Joe, says I.
Show us the entrance out.
—There you are, says Terry.
Goodbye Ireland I’m going to Gort.
So I just went round to the back of the yard to pumpship and begob (hundred shillings to five) while I was letting off my (Throwaway twenty to) letting off my load gob says I to myself I knew he was uneasy in his (two pints off of Joe and one in Slattery’s off) in his mind to get off the mark to (hundred shillings is five quid) and when they were in the (dark horse) Pisser Burke was telling me card party and letting on the child was sick (gob, must have done about a gallon) flabbyarse of a wife speaking down the tube she’s better or she’s (ow!)
all a plan so he could vamoose with the pool if he won or (Jesus, full up I was) trading without a licence (ow!)
Ireland my nation says he (hoik!
phthook!)
never be up to those bloody (there’s the last of it) Jerusalem (ah!)
cuckoos.
So anyhow when I got back they were at it dingdong, John Wyse saying it was Bloom gave the idea for Sinn Fein to Griffith to put in his paper all kinds of jerrymandering, packed juries and swindling the taxes off of the Government and appointing consuls all over the world to walk about selling Irish industries.
Robbing Peter to pay Paul.
Gob, that puts the bloody kybosh on it if old sloppy eyes is mucking up the show.
Give us a bloody chance.
God save Ireland from the likes of that bloody mouseabout.
Mr Bloom with his argol bargol.
And his old fellow before him perpetrating frauds, old Methusalem Bloom, the robbing bagman, that poisoned himself with the prussic acid after he swamping the country with his baubles and his penny diamonds.
Loans by post on easy terms.
Any amount of money advanced on note of hand.
Distance no object.
No security.
Gob he’s like Lanty MacHale’s goat that’d go a piece of the road with every one.
—Well, it’s a fact, says John Wyse.
And there’s the man now that’ll tell you about it, Martin Cunningham.
Sure enough the castle car drove up with Martin on it and Jack Power with him and a fellow named Crofter or Crofton, pensioner out of the collector general’s, an orangeman Blackburn does have on the registration and he drawing his pay or Crawford gallivanting around the country at the king’s expense.
Our travellers reached the rustic hostelry and alighted from their palfreys.
—Ho, varlet!
cried he, who by his mien seemed the leader of the party.
Saucy knave!
To us!
So saying he knocked loudly with his swordhilt upon the open lattice.
Mine host came forth at the summons girding him with his tabard.
—Give you good den, my masters, said he with an obsequious bow.
—Bestir thyself, sirrah!
cried he who had knocked.
Look to our steeds.
And for ourselves give us of your best for ifaith we need it.
—Lackaday, good masters, said the host, my poor house has but a bare larder.
I know not what to offer your lordships.
—How now, fellow?
cried the second of the party, a man of pleasant countenance, so servest thou the king’s messengers, Master Taptun?
An instantaneous change overspread the landlord’s visage.
—Cry you mercy, gentlemen, he said humbly.
An you be the king’s messengers (God shield His Majesty!)
you shall not want for aught.
The king’s friends (God bless His Majesty!)
shall not go afasting in my house I warrant me.
—Then about!
cried the traveller who had not spoken, a lusty trencherman by his aspect.
Hast aught to give us?
Mine host bowed again as he made answer:  —What say you, good masters, to a squab pigeon pasty, some collops of venison,asaddleofveal, widgeon with crisp hog’s bacon, a boar’s head with pistachios, a bason of jolly custard, a medlar tansy and a flagon of old Rhenish?
—Gadzooks!
cried the last speaker.
That likes me well.
Pistachios!
—Aha!
cried he of the pleasant countenance.
A poor house and a bare larder, quotha!
’Tis a merry rogue.
So in comes Martin asking where was Bloom.
—Where is he?
says Lenehan.
Defrauding widows and orphans.
—Isn’t that a fact, says John Wyse, what I was telling the citizen about Bloom and the Sinn Fein?
—That’s so, says Martin.
Or so they allege.
—Who made those allegations?
says Alf.
—I, says Joe.
I’m the alligator.
—And after all, says John Wyse, why can’t a jew love his country like the next fellow?
—Why not?
says J. J., when he’s quite sure which country it is.
—Is he a jew or a gentile or a holy Roman or a swaddler or what the hell is he?
says Ned.
Or who is he?
No offence, Crofton.
—We don’t want him, says Crofter the Orangeman or presbyterian.
—Who is Junius?
says J. J.
—He’s a perverted jew, says Martin, from a place in Hungary and it was he drew up all the plans according to the Hungarian system.
We know that in the castle.
—Isn’t he a cousin of Bloom the dentist?
says Jack Power.
—Not at all, says Martin.
Only namesakes.
His name was Virag.
The father’s name that poisoned himself.
He changed it by deed poll, the father did.
—That’s the new Messiah for Ireland!
says the citizen.
Island of saints and sages!
—Well they’re still waiting for their redeemer, says Martin.
For that matter so are we.
—Yes, says J. J., and every male that’s born they think it may be their Messiah.
And every jew is in a tall state of excitement, I believe, till he knows if he’s a father or a mother.
—Expecting every moment will be his next, says Lenehan.
—O, by God, says Ned, you should have seen Bloom before that son of his that died was born.
I met him one day in the south city markets buying a tin of Neave’s food six weeks before the wife was delivered.
—En ventre sa mère, says J. J.
—Do you call that a man?
says the citizen.
—I wonder did he ever put it out of sight, says Joe.
—Well, there were two children born anyhow, says Jack Power.
—And who does he suspect?
says the citizen.
Gob, there’s many a true word spoken in jest.
One of those mixed middlings he is.
Lying up in the hotel Pisser was telling me once a month with headache like a totty with her courses.
Do you know what I’m telling you?
It’d be an act of God to take a hold of a fellow the like of that and throw him in the bloody sea.
Justifiable homicide, so it would.
Then sloping off with his five quid without putting up a pint of stuff like a man.
Give us your blessing.
Not as much as would bund your eye.
—Charity to the neighbour, says Martin.
But where is he?
We can’t wait.
—A wolf in sheep’s clothing, says the citizen.
That’s what he is.
Virag from Hungary!
Ahasuerus I call him.
Cursed by God.
—Have you time for a brief libation, Martin?
says Ned.
—Only one, says Martin.
We must be quick.
J. J. and S.  —You Jack?
Crofton?
Three half ones, Terry.
—Saint Patrick would want to land again at Bally-kinlar and convert us, says the citizen, after allowing things like that to contaminate our shores.
—Well, says Martin, rapping for his glass.
God bless all here is my prayer.
—Amen, says the citizen.
—And I’m sure he will, says Joe.
And at the sound of the sacring bell, headed by a crucifer with acolytes, thurifers, boatbearers, readers, ostiarii, deacons and subdeacons, the blessed company drew nigh of mitred abbots and priors and guardians and monks and friars: the monks of Benedict of Spoleto, Carthusians and Camaldolesi, Cistercians and Olivetans, Oratorians and Vallombrosans, and the friars of Augustine, Brigittines, Premonstratesians, Servi, Trinitarians, and the children of Peter Nolasco: and therewith from Carmel mount the children of Elijah prophet led by Albert bishop and by Teresa of Avik, calced and other: and friars brown and grey, sons of poor Francis, capuchins, cordeliers, minimes and observants and the daughters of Clara: and the sons of Dominic, the friars preachers, and the sons of Vincent: and the monks of S. Wolstan: and Ignatius his children: and the confraternity of the Christian brothers led by the reverend brother Edmund Ignatius Rice.
And after came all saints and martyrs, virgins and confessors: S. Cyr and S. Isidore Arator and S. James the Less and S. Phocas of Sinope and S. Julian Hospitator and S. Felix de Cantalice and S. Simon Stylites and S. Stephen Protomartyr and S. John of God and S. Ferreol and S. Leugarde and S. Theodotus and S. Vulmar and S. Richard and S. Vincent de Paul and S. Martin of Todi and S. Martin of Tours and S. Alfred and S. Joseph and S. Denis and S. Cornelius and S. Leopold and S. Bernard and S. Terence and S. Edward and S. Owen Caniculus and S. Anonymous and S. Eponymous and S. Pseudonymous and S. Homonymous and S. Paronymous and S. Synonymous and S. Laurence O’ Toole and S. James of Dingle and Compostella and S. Columcille and S. Columba and S. Celestine and S. Colman and S. Kevin and S. Brendan and S. Frigidian and S. Senan and S. Fachtna and S. Columbanus and S. Gall and S. Fursey and S. Fintan and S. Fiacre and S. John Nepo-muc and S. Thomas Aquinas and S. Ives of Brittany and S. Michan and S. Herman-Joseph and the three patrons of holy youth S. Aloysius Gonzaga and S. Stanislaus Kostka and S. John Berchmans and the saints Gervasius, Servasius and Bonifacius and S. Bride and S. Kieran and S. Canice of Kilkenny and S. Jarlath of Tuam and S. Finbarr and S. Pappin of Ballymun and Brother Aloysius Pacificus and Brother Louis Belh’cosus and the saints Rose of Lima and of Viterbo and S. Martha of Bethany and S. Mary of Egypt and S. Lucy and S. Brigid and S. Attracta and S. Dympna and S. Ita and S. Marion Calpensis and the Blessed Sister Teresa of the Child Jesus and S. Barbara and S. Scholastica and S. Ursula with eleven thousand virgins.
And all came with nimbi and aureoles and gloriae, bearing palms and harps and swords and olive crowns, in robes whereon were woven the blessed symbols of their efficacies, inkhorns, arrows, loaves, cruses, fetters, axes, trees, bridges, babes in a bathtub, shells, wallets, shears, keys, dragons, lilies, buckshot, beards, hogs, lamps, bellows, beehives, soup-ladles, stars, snakes, anvils, boxes of vaseline, bells, crutches, forceps, stags’ horns, watertight boots, hawks, millstones, eyes on a dish, wax candles, aspergills, unicorns.
And as they wended their way by Nelson’s Pillar, Henry Street, Mary Street, Capel Street, Little Britain Street, chanting the introit in Epiphania Domini which beginneth Surge, illuminare and thereafter most sweetly the gradual Onmes which saith de Saba venient they did divers wonders such as casting out devils, raising the dead to life, multiplying fishes, healing the halt and the blind, discovering various articles which had been mislaid, interpreting and fulfilling the scriptures, blessing and prophesying.
And last, beneath a canopy of cloth of gold came die reverend Father O’Flynn attended by Malachi and Patrick.
And when the good fathers had reached the appointed place, the house of Bernard Kier-nan and Co, limited, 8, 9 and 10 little Britain street, wholesale grocers, wine and brandy shippers, licensed for the sale of beer, wine and spirits for consumption on the premises, the celebrant blessed the house and censed the mullioned windows and the groynes and the vaults and the arrises and the capitals and the pediments and the cornices and the engrailed arches and the spires and the cupolas and sprinkled the lintels thereof with blessed water and prayed that God might bless that house as he had blessed the house of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and make the angels of His light to inhabit therein.
And entering he blessed the viands and the beverages and the company of all the blessed answered his prayers.
—Adiutorium nostrum in nomine Domini.
—Que fecit ccelum et terram.
—Dominus vobiscum.
—Et cum spiritu tuo.
And he laid his hands upon the blessed and gave thanks and he prayed and they all with him prayed:  —Deus, cuius verbo sanctificantur omnia, benedictionem tuam effunde super creaturas istas: et præsta ut quisquis eis secundum legem et volunlatem Tuam cum gratiarum actione usus fuerit per invocationem sanctissimi nominis Tut corporis sanitatem et animæ tutelam Te auctore percipiat per Christum Dominum nostrum.
—And so say all of us, says Jack.
—Thousand a year, Lambert, says Crofton or Crawford.
—Right, says Ned, taking up his John Jameson.
And butter for fish.
I was just looking round to see who the happy thought would strike when be damned but in he comes again letting on to be in a hell of a hurry.
—I was just round at the courthouse, says he, looking for you.
I hope I’m not…  —No, says Martin, we’re ready.
Courthouse my eye and your pockets hanging down with gold and silver.
Mean bloody scut.
Stand us a drink itself.
Devil a sweet fear!
There’s a jew for you!
All for number one.
Cute as a shithouse rat.
Hundred to five.
—Don’t tell anyone, says the citizen.
—Beg your pardon, says he.
—Come on boys, says Martin, seeing it was looking blue.
Come along now.
—Don’t tell anyone, says the citizen, letting a bawl out of him.
It’s a secret.
And the bloody dog woke up and let a growl.
—Bye bye all, says Martin.
And he got them out as quick as he could, Jack Power and Crofton or whatever you call him and him in the middle of them letting on to be all at sea up with them on the bloody jaunting car.
Off with you, says Martin to the jarvey.
The milkwhite dolphin tossed his mane and, rising in the golden poop, the helmsman spread the bellying sail upon the wind and stood off forward with all sail set, the spinnaker to larboard.
A many comely nymphs drew nigh to starboard and to larboard and, clinging to the sides of the noble bark, they linked their shining forms as doth the cunning wheelwright when he fashions about the heart of his wheel the equidistant rays whereof each one is sister to another and he binds them all with an outer ring and giveth speed to the feet of men whenas they ride to a hosting or contend for the smile of ladies fair.
Even so did they come and set them, those willing nymphs, the undying sisters.
And they laughed, sporting in a circle of their foam: and the bark clave the waves.
But begob I was just lowering the heel of the pint when I saw the citizen getting up to waddle to the door, puffing and blowing with the dropsy and he cursing the curse of Cromwell on him, bell, book and candle in Irish, spitting and spatting out of him and Joe and little Alf round him like a leprechaun trying to peacify him.
—Let me alone, says he.
And begob he got as far as the door and they holding him and he bawls out of him:  —Three cheers for Israel!
Arrah, sit down on the parliamentary side of your arse for Christ’ sake and don’t be making a public exhibition of yourself.
Jesus, there’s always some bloody clown or other kicking up a bloody murder about bloody nothing.
Gob, it’d turn the porter sour in your guts, so it would.
And all the ragamuffins and sluts of the nation round the door and Martin telling the jarvey to drive ahead and the citizen bawling and Alf and Joe at him to whisht and he on his high horse about the jews and the loafers calling for a speech and Jack Power trying to get him to sit down on the car and hold his bloody jaw and a loafer with a patch over his eye starts singing If the man in the moon was a jew, jew, jew and a slut shouts out of her:  —Eh, mister!
Your fly is open, mister!
And says he:  —Mendelssohn was a jew and Karl Marx and Mercadante and Spinoza.
And the Saviour was a jew and his father was a jew.
Your God.
—He had no father, says Martin.
That’ll do now.
Drive ahead.
—Whose God?
says the citizen.
—Well, his uncle was a jew, says he.
Your God was a jew.
Christ was a jew like me.
Gob, the citizen made a plunge back into the shop.
—By Jesus, says he, I’ll brain that bloody jewman for using the holy name.
By Jesus, I’ll crucify him so I will.
Give us that biscuitbox here.
—Stop!
Stop!
says Joe.
A large and appreciative gathering of friends and acquaintances from the metropolis and greater Dublin assembled in their thousands to bid farewell to Nagya-sagos uram Lipóti Virag, late of Messrs Alexander Thorn’s, printers to His Majesty, on the occasion of his departure for the distant clime of Szúzharminczbro-júgulyás-Dugulás (Meadow of Murmuring Waters).
The ceremony which went off with great éclat was characterised by the most affecting cordiality.
An illuminated scroll of ancient Irish vellum, the work of Irish artists, was presented to the distinguished pheno-menologist on behalf of a large section of the community and was accompanied by the gift of a silver casket, tastefully executed in the style of ancient Celtic ornament, a work which reflects every credit on the makers, Messrs Jacob agus Jacob.
The departing guest was the recipient of a hearty ovation, many of those who were present being visibly moved when the select orchestra of Irish pipes struck up the wellknown strains of Come back to Erin, followed immediately by Rakoczfs March.
Tar-barrels and bonfires were lighted along the coastline of the four seas on the summits of the Hill of Howth, Three Rock Mountain, Sugarloaf, Bray Head, the mountains of Mourne, the Galtees, the Ox and Donegal and Sperrin peaks, the Nagles and the Bograghs, the Conne-mara hills, the reeks of M’Gillicuddy, Slieve Aughty, Slieve Bernagh and Slieve Bloom.
Amid cheers that rent the welkin, responded to by answering cheers from a big muster of henchmen on the distant Cambrian and Caledonian hills, the mastodontic pleasureship slowly moved away saluted by a final floral tribute from the representatives of the fair sex who were present in large numbers while, as it proceeded down the river, escorted by a flotilla of barges, the flags of the Ballast office and Custom House were dipped in salute as were also those of the electrical power station at the Pigeonhouse.
Visszontlátásra, kedvés baráton!
Visszontlátásra!
Gone but not forgotten.
Gob, the devil wouldn’t stop him till he got hold of the bloody tin anyhow and out with him and little Alf hanging on to his elbow and he shouting like a stuck pig, as good as any bloody play in the Queen’s royal theatre.
—Where is he till I murder him?
And Ned and J. G. paralysed with the laughing.
—Bloody wars, says I, I’ll be in for the last gospel.
But as luck would have it the jarvey got the nag’s head round the other way and off with him.
—Hold on, citizen, says Joe.
Stop.
Begob he drew his hand and made a swipe and let fly.
Mercy of God the sun was in his eyes or he’d have left Viiin for dead.
Gob, he near sent it into the county Longford.
The bloody nag took fright and the old mongrel after the car like bloody hell and all the populace shouting and laughing and the old tinbox clattering along the street.
The catastrophe was terrific and instantaneous in its effect.
The observatory of Dunsink registered in all eleven shocks, all of the fifth grade of Mercalli’s scale, and there is no record extant of a similar seismic disturbance in our island since the earthquake of 1534, the year of the rebellion of Silken Thomas.
The epicentre appears to have been that part of the metropolis which constitutes the Inn’s Quay ward and parish of Saint Michan covering a surface of fortyone acres, two roods and one square pole or perch.
All the lordly residences in the vicinity of the palace of justice were demolished and that noble edifice itself, in which at the time of the catastrophe important legal debates were in progress, is literally a mass of ruins beneath which it is to be feared all the occupants have been buried alive.
From the reports of eyewitnesses it transpires that the seismic waves were accompanied by a violent atmospheric perturbation of cyclonic character.
An article of headgear since ascertained to belong to the much respected clerk of the crown and peace Mr George Fottrell and a silk umbrella with gold handle with die engraved initials, coat of arms and house number of the erudite and worshipful chairman of quarter sessions sir Frederick Faflriner, recorder of Dublin, have been discovered by search parties in remote parts of the island, respectively, the former on the third basaltic ridge of the giant’s causeway, the latter embedded to the extent of one foot three inches in the sandy beach of Holeopen bay near the old head of Kinsale.
Other eyewitnesses depose that they observed an incandescent object of enormous proportions hurtling through the atmosphere at a terrifying velocity in a trajectory directed south west by west.
Messages of condolence and sympathy are being hourly received from all parts of the different continents and the sovereign pontiff has been graciously pleased to decree that a special missa fro defunctis shall be celebrated simultaneously by lie ordinaries of each and every cathedral church of all the episcopal dioceses subject to the spiritual authority of the Holy See in suffrage of the souls of those faithful departed who have been so unexpectedly called away from our midst.
The work of salvage, removal of débris human remains etc has been entrusted to Messrs Michael Meade and Son, 159, Great Brunswick Street and Messrs T. C. Martin, 77, 78, 79 and 80, North Wall, assisted by the men and officers of the Duke of Cornwall’s light infantry under the general supervision of H. R. H., rear admiral the right honourable sir Hercules Hannibal Habeas Corpus Anderson K.G., K.P., K.T., P.C., K.C.B., M.P., J.P., M.B., D.S.O., S.O.D., M.F.H., M.R.I.A., B.L., Mus.
Doc., P.L.G., F.T.C.D., F.R.U.I., F.R.C.P.I.
and F.R.C.S.I.
You never saw the like of it in all your born puff.
Gob, if he got that lottery ticket on the side of his poll he’d remember the gold cup, he would so, but begob the citizen would have been lagged for assault and battery and Joe for aiding and abetting.
The jarvey saved his life by furious driving as sure as God made Moses.
What?
O, Jesus, he did.
And he let a volley of oaths after him.
—Did I kill him, says he, or what?
And he shouting to the bloody dog:  —After him, Garry!
After him, boy!
And the last we saw was the bloody car rounding the corner and old sheepface on it gesticulating and the bloody mongrel after it with his lugs back for all he was bloody well worth to tear him limb from limb.
Hundred to five!
Jesus, he took the value of it out of him, I promise you.
When, lo, there came about them all a great brightness and they beheld the chariot wherein He stood ascend to heaven.
And they beheld Him in the chariot, clothed upon in the glory of the brightness, having raiment as of the sun, fair as the moon and terrible that for awe they durst not look upon Him.
And there came a voice out of heaven, calling: Elijah I Elijah !
And he answered with a main cry: Abba!
Adonai!
And they beheld Him even Him, ben Bloom Elijah, amid clouds of angels ascend to the glory of the brightness at an angle of fortyfive degrees over Donohoe’s in Little Green Street like a shot off a shovel.
THE summer evening had begun to fold the world in its mysterious embrace.
Far away in the west the sun was setting and the last glow of all too fleeting day lingered lovingly on sea and strand, on the proud promontory of dear old Howth guarding as ever the waters of the bay, on the weedgrown rocks along Sandymount shore and, last but not least, on the quiet church whence there streamed forth at times upon the stillness the voice of prayer to her who is in her pure radiance a beacon ever to the storm-tossed heart of man, Mary, star of the sea.
The three girl friends were seated on the rocks, enjoying the evening scene and the air which was fresh but not too chilly.
Many a time and oft were they wont to come there to that favourite nook to have a cosy chat beside the sparkling waves and discuss matters feminine, Cissy Caffrey and Edy Boardman with the baby in the pushcar and Tommy and Jacky Caffrey, two little curly-headed boys, dressed in sailor suits with caps to match and the name H.M.S.
Belleisle printed on both.
For Tommy and Jacky Caffrey were twins, scarce four years old and very noisy and spoiled twins sometimes but for all that darling little fellows with bright merry faces and endearing ways about them.
They were dabbling in the sand with their spades and buckets, building castles as children do, or playing with their big coloured ball, happy as the day was long.
And Edy Boardman was rocking the chubby baby to and fro in the pushcar while that young gentleman fairly chuckled with delight.
