Irish Lights board.
Penance for their sins.
Coastguards too.
Rocket and breeches buoy and lifeboat.
Day we went out for the pleasure cruise in the Erin’s King, throwing them the sack of old papers.
Bears in the zoo.
Filthy trip.
Drunkards out to shake up their livers.
Puking overboard to feed the herrings.
Nausea.
And the women, fear of God in their faces.
Milly, no sign of funk.
Her blue scarf loose, laughing.
Don’t know what death is at that age.
And then their stomachs clean.
But being lost they fear.
When we hid behind the tree at Crumlin.
I didn’t want to.
Mamma!
Mamma!
Babes in the wood.
Frightening them with masks too.
Throwing them up in the air to catch them.
I’ll murder you.
Is it only half fun?
Or children playing battle.
Whole earnest.
How can people aim guns at each other?
Sometimes they go off.
Poor kids.
Only troubles wildfire and nettlerash.
Calomel purge I got her for that.
After getting better asleep with Molly.
Very same teeth she has.
What do they love?
Another themselves?
But the morning she chased her with the umbrella.
Perhaps so as not to hurt.
I felt her pulse.
Ticking.
Little hand it was: now big.
Dearest Papli.
All that the hand says when you touch.
Loved to count my waistcoat buttons.
Her first stays I remember.
Made me laugh to see.
Little paps to begin with.
Left one is more sensitive, I think.
Mine too.
Nearer the heart.
Padding themselves out if fat is in fashion.
Her growing pains at night, calling, wakening me.
Frightened she was when her nature came on her first.
Poor child!
Strange moment for the mother too.
Brings back her girlhood.
Gibraltar.
Looking from Buena Vista.
O’Hara’s tower.
The seabirds screaming.
Old Barbary ape that gobbled all his family.
Sundown, gunfire for the men to cross the lines.
Looking out over the sea she told me.
Evening like this, but clear, no clouds.
I always thought I’d marry a lord or a gentleman with a private yacht.
Buenas noches, señorita.
El hombre ama la muchacha hermosa.
Why me?
Because you were so foreign from the others.
Better not stick here all night like a limpet.
This weather makes you dull.
Must be getting on for nine by the light.
Go home.
Too late for Leah, Lily of Killarney.
No.
Might be still up.
Call to the hospital to see.
Hope she’s over.
Long day I’ve had.
Martha, the bath, funeral, house of keys, museum with those goddesses, Dedalus’ song.
Then that bawler in Barney Kiernan’s.
Got my own back there.
Drunken ranters.
What I said about his God made him wince.
Mistake to hit back.
Or?
No.
Ought to go home and laugh at themselves.
Always want to be swilling in company.
Afraid to be alone like a child of two.
Suppose he hit me.
Look at it other way round.
Not so bad then.
Perhaps not to hurt he meant.
Three cheers for Israel.
Three cheers for the sister-in-law he hawked about, three fangs in her mouth.
Same style of beauty.
Particularly nice old party for a cup of tea.
The sister of the wife of the wild man of Borneo has just come to town.
Imagine that in the early morning at close range.
Everyone to his taste as Morris said when he kissed the cow.
But Dignam’s put the boots on it.
Houses of mourning so depressing because you never know.
Anyhow she wants the money.
Must call to those Scottish widows as I promised.
Strange name.
Takes it for granted we’re going to pop off first.
That widow on Monday was it outside Cramer’s that looked at me.
Buried the poor husband but progressing favourably on the premium.
Her widow’s mite.
Well?
What do you expect her to do?
Must wheedle her way along.
Widower I hate to see.
Looks so forlorn.
Poor man O’Connor wife and five children poisoned by mussels here.
The sewage.
Hopeless.
Some good matronly woman in a porkpie hat to mother him.
Take him in tow, platter face and a large apron.
Ladies’ grey flannelette bloomers, three shillings a pair, astonishing bargain.
Plain and loved, loved for ever, they say.
Ugly: no woman thinks she is.
Love, lie and be handsome for tomorrow we die.
See him sometimes walking about trying to find out who played the trick.
U. p.: up.
Fate that is.
He, not me.
Also a shop often noticed.
Curse seems to dog it.
Dreamt last night?
Wait.
Something confused.
She had red slippers on.
Turkish.
Wore the breeches.
Suppose she does.
Would I like her in pyjamas?
Damned hard to answer.
Nannetti’s gone.
Mailboat.
Near Holyhead by now.
Must nail that ad of Keyes’s.
Work Hynes and Crawford.
Petticoats for Molly.
She has something to put in them.
What’s that?
Might be money.
Mr Bloom stooped and turned over a piece of paper on the strand.
He brought it near his eyes and peered.
Letter?
No.
Can’t read.
Better go.
Better.
I’m tired to move.
Page of an old copybook.
All those holes and pebbles.
Who could count them?
Never know what you find.
Bottle with story of a treasure in it thrown from a wreck.
Parcels post.
Children always want to throw things in the sea.
Trust?
Bread cast on the waters.
What’s this?
Bit of stick.
O!
Exhausted that female has me.
Not so young now.
Will she come here tomorrow?
Wait for her somewhere for ever.
Must come back.
Murderers do.
Will I?
Mr Bloom with his stick gently vexed the thick sand at his foot.
Write a message for her.
Might remain.
What?
I.
Some flatfoot tramp on it in the morning.
Useless.
Washed away.
Tide comes here a pool near her foot.
Bend, see my face there, dark mirror, breathe on it, stirs.
All these rocks with lines and scars and letters.
O, those transparent!
Besides they don’t know.
What is the meaning of that other world.
I called you naughty boy because I do not like.
AM.
A.
No room.
Let it go.
Mr Bloom effaced the letters with his slow boot.
Hopeless thing sand.
Nothing grows in it.
All fades.
No fear of big vessels coming up here.
Except Guinness’s barges.
Round the Kish in eighty days.
Done half by design.
He flung his wooden pen away.
The stick fell in silted sand, stuck.
Now if you were trying to do that for a week on end you couldn’t.
Chance.
We’ll never meet again.
But it was lovely.
Goodbye, dear.
Thanks.
Made me feel so young.
Short snooze now if I had.
Must be near nine.
Liverpool boat long gone.
Not even the smoke.
And she can do the other.
Did too.
And Belfast.
I won’t go.
Race there, race back to Ennis.
Let him.
Just close my eyes a moment.
Won’t sleep though.
Half dream.
It never comes the same.
Bat again.
No harm in him.
Just a few.
O sweety all your little girlwhite up I saw dirty brace-girdle made me do love sticky we two naughty Grace darling she him half past the bed met him pike hoses frillies for Raoul to perfume your wife black hair heave under embon señrita young eyes Mulvey plump years dreams return tail end Agendath swoony lovey showed me her next year in drawers return next in her next her next.
A bat flew.
Here.
There.
Here.
Far in the grey a bell chimed.
Mr Bloom with open mouth, his left boot sanded sideways, leaned, breathed.
Just for a few.
Cuckoo  Cuckoo  Cuckoo    The clock on the mantelpiece in the priest’s house cooed where Canon O’Hanlon and Father Conroy and the reverend John Hughes S. J. were taking tea and sodabread and butter and fried mutton chops with catsup and talking about  Cuckoo  Cuckoo  Cuckoo    Because it was a little canarybird bird that came out of its little house to tell the time that Gerty MacDowell noticed the time she was there because she was as quickas anything about a thing like that, was Gerty MacDowell, and she noticed at once that that foreign gentleman that was sitting on the rocks looking was  Cuckoo  Cuckoo  Cuckoo      DESHIL Holies Eamus.
Deshil Holies Eamus.
Deshil Holies Eamus.
Send us, bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening and wombfruit.
Send us, bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening and wombfruit.
Send us bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening and womb-fruit.
Hoopsa, boyaboy, hoopsa!
Hoopsa, boyaboy, hoopsa!
Hoopsa, boyaboy, hoopsa.
Universally that person’s acumen is esteemed very little perceptive concerning whatsoever matters are being held as most profitably by mortals with sapience endowed to be studied who is ignorant of that which the most in doctrine erudite and certainly by reason of that in them high mind’s ornament deserving of veneration constantly maintain when by general consent they affirm that other circumstances being equal by no exterior splendour is the prosperity of a nation more efficaciously asserted than by the measure of how far forward may have progressed the tribute of its solicitude for that proliferent continuance which of evils the original if it be absent when fortunately present constitutes the certain sign of omnipollent nature’s incorrupted benefaction.
For who is there who anything of some significance has apprehended but is conscious that that exterior splendour may be the surface of a downwardtending lutulent reality or on the contrary anyone so is there inilluminated as not to perceive that as no nature’s boon can contend against the bounty of increase so it behoves every most just citizen to become the exhortator and admonisher of his sem-blables and to tremble lest what had in the past been by the nation excellently commenced might be in the future not with similar excellence accomplished if an inverecund habit shall have gradually traduced the honourable by ancestors transmitted customs to that thither of profundity that that one was audacious excessively who would have the hardihood to rise affirming that no more odious offence can for anyone be than to oblivious neglect to consign that evangel simultaneously command and promise which on all mortals with prophecy of abundance or with diminution’s menace that exalted of reiteratedly procreating function ever irrevocably enjoined?
It is not why therefore we shall wonder if, as the best historians relate, among the Celts, who nothing that was not in its nature admirable admired, the art of medicine shall have been highly honoured.
Not to speak of hostels, leperyards, sweating chambers, plaguegraves, their greatest doctors, the O’Shiels, die O’Hickeys, the O’Lees, have sedulously set down the divers methods by which the sick and the relapsed found again health whether the malady had been the trembling withering or loose boyconnell flux.
Certainly in every public work which in it anything of gravity contains preparation should be with importance commensurate and therefore a plan was by them adopted (whether by having pre-considered or as the maturation of experience it is difficult in being said which the discrepant opinions of subsequent inquirers are not up to the present congrued to render manifest) whereby maternity was so far from all accident possibility removed that whatever care the patient in that allhardest of woman hour chiefly required and not solely for the copiously opulent but also for her who not being sufficiently moneyed scarcely and often not even scarcely could subsist valiantly and for an inconsiderable emolument was provided.
To her nothing already then and thenceforward was anyway able to be molestful for this chiefly felt all citizens except with proliferent mothers prosperity at all not to can be and as they had received eternity gods mortals generation to befit them her beholding, when the case was so having itself, parturient in vehicle thereward carrying desire immense among all one another was impelling on of her to be received into that domicile.
O thing of prudent nation not merely in being seen but also even in being related worthy of being praised that they her by anticipation went seeing mother, that she by them suddenly to be about to be cherished had been begun she felt!
Before born babe bliss had.
Within womb won he worship.
Whatever in that one case done commodiously done was.
A couch by midwives attended with wholesome food reposeful cleanest swaddles as though forth-bringing were now done and by wise foresight set: but to this no less of what drugs there is need and surgical implements which are pertaining to her case not omitting aspect of all very distracting spectacles in various latitudes by our terrestrial orb offered together with images, divine and human, the cogitation of which by sejunct females is to tumescence conducive or eases issue in the high sunbright wellbuilt fair home of mothers when, ostensibly far gone and reproductitive, it is come by her thereto to lie in, her term up.
Some man that wayfaring was stood by housedoor at night’s oncoming.
Of Israel’s folk was that man that on earth wandering far had fared.
Stark ruth of man his errand that him lone led till that house.
Of that house A.
Home is lord.
Seventy beds keeps he there teeming mothers are wont that they he for to thole and bring forth bairns hale so God’s angel to Mary quoth.
Watchers they there walk, white sisters in ward sleepless.
Smarts they still sickness soothing: in twelve moons thrice an hundred.
Truest bedthanes they twain are, for Home holding wariest ward.
In ward wary the watcher hearing come that man mild-hearted eft rising with swire ywimpled to him her gate wide undid.
Lo, levin leaping lightens in eyeblink Ireland’s westward welkin!
Full she dread that God the Wreaker all mankind would fordo with water for his evil sins.
Christ’s rood made she on breastbone and him drew that he would rathe infare under her thatch.
That man her will wotting worthful went in Home’s house.
Loth to irk in Home’s hall hat holding the seeker stood.
On her stow he ere was living with dear wife and lovesome daughter that then over land and seafloor nine year had long outwandered.
Once her in townhithe meeting he to her bow had not doffed.
Her to forgive now he craved with good ground of her allowed that that of him swiftseen face, hers, so young then had looked.
Light swift her eyes kindled, bloom of blushes his word winning.
As her eyes then ongot his weeds swart therefor sorrow she feared.
Glad after she was that ere adread was.
Her he asked if O’Hare Doctor tidings sent from far coast and she with grameful sigh him answered that O’Hare Doctor in heaven was.
Sad was the man that word to hear that him so heavied in bowels ruthful.
All she there told him, ruing death for friend so young, algate sore unwilling God’s rightwiseness to withsay.
She said that he had a fair sweet death through God His goodness with mass-priest to be shriven, holy housel and sick men’s oil to his limbs.
The man then right earnest asked the nun of which death the dead man was died and the nun answered him and said that he was died in Mona island through bellycrab three year agone come Childermas and she prayed to God the Allruthful to have his dear soul in his undeathliness.
He heard her sad words, in held hat sad staring.
So stood they there both awhile in wan-hope, sorrowing one with other.
Therefore, everyman, look to that last end that is thy death and the dust that gripeth on every man that is born of woman for as he came naked forth from his mother’s womb so naked shall he wend him at the last for to go as he came.
The man that was come into the house then spoke to the nursing-woman and he asked her how it fared with the woman that lay there in childbed.
The nursingwoman answered him and said that that woman was in throes now full three days and that it would be a hard birth unneth to bear but that now in a little it would be.
She said thereto that she had seen many births of women but never was none so hard as was that woman’s birth.
Then she set it forth all to him that time was had lived nigh that house.
The man hearkened to her words for he felt with wonder women’s woe in the travail that they have of motherhood and he wondered to look on her face that was a young face for any man to see but yet was she left after long years a handmaid.
Nine twelve bloodflows chiding her childless.
And whiles they spake the door of the castle was opened and there nighed them a mickle noise as of many that sat there at meat.
And there came against the place as they stood a young learning knight yclept Dixon.
And the traveller Leopold was couth to him sithen it had happed that they had had ado each with other in the house of misericord where this learning knight lay by cause the traveller Leopold came there to be healed for he was sore wounded in his breast by a spear wherewith a horrible and dreadful dragon was smitten him for which he did do make a salve of volatile salt and chrism as much as he might suffice.
And he said now that he should go into that castle for to make merry with them that were there.
And the traveller Leopold said that he should go otherwhither for he was a man of cautels and a subtle.
Also the lady was of his avis and reproved the learning knight though she trowed well that the traveller had said thing that was false for his subtility.
But the learning knight would not hear say nay nor do her man-dement ne have him in aught contrarious to his list and he said how it was a marvellous castle.
And the traveller Leopold went into the castle for to rest him for a space being sore of limb after many marches environing in divers lands and sometimes venery.
And in the castle was set a board that was of the birch-wood of Finlandy and it was upheld by four dwarfmen of that country but they durst not move for enchantment.
And on this board were frightful swords and knives that are made in a great cavern by swinking demons out of white flames that they fix in the horns of buffalos and stags that there abound marvellously.
And there were vessels that are wrought by magic of Mahound out of seasand and the air by a warlock with his breath that he blares into them like to bubbles.
And full fair cheer and rich was on the board that no wight could devise a fuller ne richer.
And there was a vat of silver that was moved by craft to open in the which lay strange fishes withouten heads though misbelieving men nie that this be possible thing without they see it natheless they are so.
And these fishes lie in an oily water brought there from Portugal land because of the fatness that therein is like to the juices of the olive press.
And also it was marvel to see in that castle how by magic they make a compost out of fecund wheat kidneys out of Chaldee that by aid of certain angry spirits that they do into it swells up wondrously like to a vast mountain.
And they teach the serpents there to entwine themselves up on long sticks out of the ground and of the scales of these serpents they brew out a brewage like to mead.
And the learning knight let pour for childe Leopold a draught and halp thereto the while all they that were there drank every each.
And childe Leopold did up his beaver for to pleasure him and took apertly somewhat in amity for he never drank no manner of mead which he then put by and anon full privily he voided the more part in his neighbour glass and his neighbour wist not of his wile.
And he sat down in that castle with them for to rest him there awhile.
Thanked be Almighty God.
This meanwhile this good sister stood by the door and begged them at the reverence of Jesu our alther liege lord to leave their wassailing for there was above one quick with child a gentle dame, whose time hied fast.
Sir Leopold heard on the upfloor cry on high and he wondered what cry that it was whether of child or woman and I marvel, said he, that it be not come or now.
Meseems it dureth overlong.
And he was ware and saw a franklin that hight Lenehan on that side the table that was older than any of the tother and for that they both were knights virtuous in the one emprise and eke by cause that he was elder he spoke to him full gently.
But, said he, or it be long too she will bring forth by God His bounty and have joy of her childing for she hath waited marvellous long.
And the franklin that had drunken said, Expecting each moment to be her next.
Also he took the cup that stood tofore him for him needed never none asking nor desiring of him to drink and, Now drink, said he, fully delectably, and he quaffed as far as he might to their both’s health for he was a passing good man of his lustiness.
And sir Leopold that was the goodliest guest that ever sat in scholars’ hall and that was the meekest man and the kindest that ever laid husbandly hand under hen and that was the very truest knight of the world one that ever did minion service to lady gentle pledged him courtly in the cup.
Woman’s woe with wonder pondering.
Now let us speak of that fellowship that was there to the intent to be drunken an they might.
There was a sort of scholars along either side the board, that is to wit, Dixon yclept junior of saint Mary Merciable’s with other his fellows Lynch and Madden, scholars of medicine, and the franklin that hight Lenehan and one from Alba Longa, one Crotthers, and young Stephen that had mien of a frere that was at head of the board and Costello that men clepen Punch Costello all long of a mastery of him erewhile gested (and of all them, reserved young Stephen, he was the most drunken that demanded still of more mead) and beside the meek sir Leopold.
But on young Malachi they waited for that he promised to have come and such as intended to no goodness said how he had broke his avow.
And sir Leopold sat with them for he bore fast friendship to sir Simon and to this his son young Stephen and for that his languor becalmed him there after longest wanderings insomuch as they feasted him for that time in the honourablest manner.
Ruth red him, love led on with will to wander, loth to leave.
For they were right witty scholars.
And he heard their aresouns each gen other as touching birth and righteousness, young Madden maintaining that put such case it were hard die wife to die (for so it had fallen out a matter of some year agone with a woman of Eblana in Home’s house that now was trespassed out of this world and the self night next before her death all leeches and pothe-caries had taken counsel of her case).
And they said farther she should live because in the beginning they said the woman should bring forth in pain and wherefore they that were of this imagination affirmed how young Madden had said truth for he had conscience to let her die.
And not few and of these was young Lynch were in doubt that the world was now right evil governed as it was never other howbeit the mean people believed it otherwise but the law nor his judges did provide no remedy.
A redress God grant.
This was scant said but all cried with one acclaim nay, by our Virgin Mother, the wife should live and the babe to die.
In colour whereof they waxed hot upon that head what with argument and what for their drinking but the franklin Lenehan was prompt each when to pour them ale so that at the least way mirth might not lack.
Then young Madden showed all the whole affair and when he said how that she was dead and how for holy religion sake by rede of palmer and bedesman and for a vow he had made to Saint Ultan of Arbraccan her goodman husband would not let her death whereby they were all wondrous grieved.
To whom young Stephen had these words following.
Murmur, sirs, is eke oft among lay folk.
Both babe and parent now glorify their Maker, the one in limbo gloom, the other in purge fire.
But, gramercy, what of those Godpossibled souls that we nightly im-possibilise, which is the sin against the Holy Ghost, Very God, Lord and Giver of Life?
For, sirs, he said, our lust is brief.
We are means to those small creatures within us and nature has other ends than we.
Then said Dixon junior to Punch Costello wist he what ends.
But he had overmuch drunken and the best word he could have of him was that he would ever dishonest a woman whoso she were or wife or maid or leman if it so fortuned him to be delivered of his spleen of lustihead.
Whereat Crotthers of Alba Longa sang young Malachi’s praise of that beast the unicorn how once in the millennium he cometh by his horn the other all this while pricked forward with their jibes wherewith they did malice him, witnessing all and several by saint Foutinus his engines that he was able to do any manner of thing that lay in man to do.
Thereat laughed they all right jocundly only young Stephen and sir Leopold which never durst laugh too open by reason of a strange humour which he would not bewray and also for that he rued for her that bare whoso she might be or wheresoever.
Then spoke young Stephen orgulous of mother Church that would cast him out of her bosom, of law of canons, of Lilith, patron of abortions, of bigness wrought by wind of seeds of brightness or by potency of vampires mouth to mouth or, as Virgilius saith, by the influence of the Occident or by the reek of moonflower or an she lie with a woman which her man has but lain with, effectu secuto, or peradventure in her bath according to the opinions of Averroes and Moses Maimonides.
He said also how at the end of the second month a human soul was infused and how in all our holy mother foldeth ever souls for God’s greater glory whereas that earthly mother which was but a dam to bring forth beastly should die by canon for so saith he that holdeth the fisherman’s seal, even that blessed Peter on which rock was holy church for all ages founded.
All they bachelors then asked of sir Leopold would he in like case so jeopard her person as risk life to save life.
A wariness of mind he would answer as fitted all and, laying hand to jaw, he said dissembling, as his wont was, that as it was informed him, who had ever loved the art of physic as might a layman, and agreeing also with his experience of so seldom seen an accident it was good for that Mother Church belike at one blow had birth and death pence and in such sort deliverly he scaped their questions.
That is truth, pardy, said Dixon, and, or I err, a pregnant word.
Which hearing young Stephen was a marvellous glad man and he averred that he who stealeth from the poor lendeth to the Lord for he was of a wild manner when he was drunken and that he was now in that taking it appeared eftsoons.
But sir Leopold was passing grave maugre his word by cause he still had pity of the terrorcausing shrieking of shrill women in their labour and as he was minded of his good lady Marion that had borne him an only man-child which on his eleventh day on live had died and no man of art could save so dark is destiny.
And she was wondrous stricken of heart for that evil hap and for his burial did him on a fair corselet of lamb s wool, the flower of the flock, lest he might perish utterly and lie akeled (for it was then about the midst of the winter) and now sir Leopold that had of his body no manchild for an heir looked upon him his friend’s son and was shut up in sorrow for his forepassed happiness and as sad as he was that him failed a son of such gentle courage (for all accounted him of real parts) so grieved he also in no less measure for young Stephen for that he lived riotously with those wastrels and murdered his goods with whores.
About that present time young Stephen filled all cups that stood empty so as there remained but little mo if the prudenter had not shadowed their approach from him that still plied it very busily who, praying for the intentions of die sovereign pontiff, he gave them for a pledge the vicar of Christ which also as he said is vicar of Bray.
Now drink we, quod he, of this mazer and quaff ye this mead which is not indeed parcel of my body but my soul’s bodiment.
Leave ye fraction of bread to them that live by bread alone.
Be not afeard neither for any want for this will comfort more than the other will dismay.
See ye here.
And he showed them glistering coins of the tribute and goldsmiths’ notes the worth of two pound nineteen shilling that he had, he said, for a song which he writ.
They all admired to see the foresaid riches in such dearth of money as was herebefore.
His words were then these as followeth: Know all men, he said, time’s ruins build eternity’s mansions.
What means this?
Desire’s wind blasts the thorntree but after it becomes from a bramblebush to be a rose upon the rood of time.
Mark me now.
In woman’s womb word is made flesh but in the spirit of the maker all flesh that passes becomes the word that shall not pass away.
This is the postcreation.
Omnis caro ad te veniet.
No question but her name is puissant who aventried the dear corse of our Agenbuyer, Healer and Herd, our mighty mother and mother most venerable and Bernardus saith aptly that she hath an omnipotentiam deiparae supplicem, that is to wit, an almightiness of petition because she is the second Eve and she won us, saith Augustine too, whereas that other, our grandam, which we are linked up with by successive anastomosis of navelcords sold us all, seed, breed and generation, for a penny pippin.
But here is the matter now.
Or she knew him, that second I say, and was but creature of her creature, vergine madre figlia di tuo figlio or she knew him not and then stands she in the one denial or ignorancy with Peter Piscator who lives in the house that Jack built and with Joseph the Joiner patron of the happy demise of all unhappy marriages parce que M. Léo Taxil nous a dit que qui I’avait mise dans cette fichue position c’était le sacré pigeon, venire de Dieu !
Entweder transsubstantiality oder consubstantiality but in no case subsubstantiality.
And all cried out upon it for a very scurvy word.
A pregnancy without joy, he said, a birth without pangs, a body without blemish, a belly without bigness.
Let die lewd with faith and fervour worship.
With will will we withstand, withsay.
Hereupon Punch Costello dinged with his fist upon the board and would sing a bawdy catch Staboo Stabella about a wench that was put in pod of a jolly swashbuckler in Almany which he did now attack: The first three months she was not well, Staboo, when here nurse Quigley from the door angerly bid them hist ye should shame you nor was it not meet as she remembered them being her mind was to have all orderly against lord Andrew came for because she was jealous that not gasteful turmoil might shorten the honour of her guard.
It was an ancient and a sad matron of a sedate look and Christian walking, in habit dun beseeming her megrims and wrinkled visage, nor did her hortative want of it effect for incontinently Punch Costello was of them all embraided and they reclaimed the churl with civil rudeness some and with menace of blandishments others whiles all chode with him, a murrain seize the dolt, what a devil he would be at, thou chuff, thou puny, thou got in the peasestraw, thou losel, thou chitterling, thou spawn of a rebel, thou dykedropt, thou abortion thou, to shut up his drunken drool out of that like a curse of God ape, the good sir Leopold that had for his cognisance the flower of quiet, margerain gentle, advising also the time’s occasion as most sacred and most worthy to be most sacred.
In Home’s house rest should reign.
To be short this passage was scarce by when Master Dixon of Mary in Eccles, goodly grinning, asked young Stephen what was the reason why he had not tided to take friar’s vows and he answered him obedience in the womb, chastity in the tomb but involuntary poverty all his days.
Master Lenehan at this made return that he had heard of those nefarious deeds and how, as he heard hereof counted, he had besmirched the lily virtue of a confiding female which was corruption of minors and they all intershowed it too, waxing merry and toasting to his fathership.
But he said very entirely it was clean contrary to their suppose for he was the eternal son and ever Virgin.
Thereat mirth grew in them the more and they rehearsed to him his curious rite of wedlock for the disrobing and deflowering of spouses, as the priests use in Madagascar island, she to be in guise of white and saffron, her groom in white and grain, with burning of nard and tapers, on a bridebed while clerks sung kyries and the anthem Ut novetur sexus omnis corporis mysterium till she was there unmaided.
He gave them then a much admirable hymen minim by those delicate poets Master John Fletcher and Master Francis Beaumont that is in their Maid’s Tragedy that was writ for a like twining of lovers: To bed, to bed, was the burden of it to be played with accompanable concent upon the virginals.
An exquisite dulcet epithalame of most mollificative suad-ency for juveniles amatory whom the odoriferous flambeaus of the paranymphs have escorted to the quadrupedal proscenium of connubial communion.
Well met they were, said Master Dixon, joyed, but, harkee, young sir, better were they named Beau Mount and Lecher for, by my truth, of such a mingling much might come.
Young Stephen said indeed to his best remembrance they had but the one doxy between them and she of the stews to make shift with in delights amorous for life ran very high in those days and the custom of the country approved with it.
Greater love than this, he said, no man hath that a man lay down his wife for his friend.
Go thou and do likewise.
Thus, or words to that effect, said Zarathustra, sometime regius professor of French letters to the university of Oxtail nor breathed there ever that man to whom mankind was more beholden.
Bring a stranger within thy tower it will go hard but thou wilt have the secondbest bed.
Orate, fratres, pro memetipso.
And all the people shall say.
Amen.
Remember, Erin, thy generations and thy days of old, how thou settedst little by me and by my word and broughtest in a stranger to my gates to commit fornication in my sight and to wax fat and kick like Jeshurum.
Therefore hast thou sinned against the light and hast made me, thy lord, to be the slave of servants.
Return, return, Clan Milly: forget me not, O Milesian.
Why hast thou done this abomination before me that thou didst spurn me for a merchant of jalaps and didst deny me to the Roman and the Indian of dark speech with whom thy daughters did lie luxuriously?
Look forth now, my people, upon the land of behest, even from Horeb and from Nebo and from Pisgah and from the Horns of Hatten unto a land flowing with milk and money.
But thou hast suckled me with a bitter milk: my moon and my sun thou hast quenched for ever.
And thou hast left me alone for ever in the dark ways of my bitterness: and with a kiss of ashes hast thou kissed my mouth.
This tenebrosity of the interior, he proceeded to say, hath not been illumined by the wit of the septuagint nor so much as mentioned for the Orient from on high which brake hell’s gates visited a darkness that was foraneous.
Assuefaction minorates atrocities (as Tully saith of his darling Stoics) and Hamlet his father showeth the prince no blister of combustion.
