A bit at a time.
Fingering still the letter in his pocket he drew the pin out of it.
Common pin, eh?
He threw it on the road.
Out of her clothes somewhere: pinned together.
Queer the number of pins they always have.
No roses without thorns.
Flat Dublin voices bawled in his head.
Those two sluts that night in the Coombe, linked together in the rain.
O, Mary lost the pin of her drawers.
She didn’t know what to do  To keep it up  To keep it up.
It?
Them.
Such a bad headache.
Has her roses probably.
Or sitting all day typing.
Eyefocus bad for stomach nerves.
What perfume does your wife use?
Now could you make out a thing like that?
To keep it up.
Martha, Mary.
I saw that picture somewhere I forget now old master or faked for money.
He is sitting in their house, talking.
Mysterious.
Also the two sluts in the Coombe would listen.
To keep it up.
Nice kind of evening feeling.
No more wandering about.
Just loll there: quiet dusk: let everything rip.
Forget.
Tell about places you have been, strange customs.
The other one, jar on her head, was getting the supper: fruit, olives, lovely cool water out of the well stonecold nice the hole in the wall at Ashtown.
Must carry a paper goblet next time I go to the trotting-matches.
She listens with big dark soft eyes.
Tell her: more and more: all.
Then a sigh: silence.
Long long long rest.
Going under the railway arch he took out the envelope, tore it swiftly in shreds and scattered them towards the road.
The shreds fluttered away, sank in the dank air: a white flutter then all sank.
Henry Flower.
You could tear up a cheque for a hundred pounds in the same way.
Simple bit of paper.
Lord Iveagh once cashed a sevenfigure cheque for a million in the bank of Ireland.
Shows you the money to be made out of porter.
Still the other brother lord Ardilaun has to change his shirt four times a day, they say.
Skin breeds lice or vermin.
A million pounds, wait a moment.
Twopence a pint, fourpence a quart, eight-pence a gallon of porter, no, one and fourpence a gallon of porter.
One and four into twenty: fifteen about.
Yes, exactly.
Fifteen millions of barrels of porter.
What am I saying barrels?
Gallons.
About a million barrels all the same.
An incoming train clanked heavily above his head, coach after coach.
Barrels bumped in his head: dull porter slopped and churned inside.
The bungholes sprang open and a huge dull flood leaked out, flowing together, winding through mudflats all over the level land, a lazy pooling swirl of liquor bearing along wide-leaved flowers of its froth.
He had reached the open backdoor of All Hallows.
Stepping into the porch he doffed his hat, took the card from his pocket and tucked it again behind the leather headband.
Damn it.
I might have tried to work M‘Coy for a pass to Mullingar.
Same notice on the door.
Sermon by the very reverend John Conmee S. J. on saint Peter Claver and the African mission.
Save China’s millions.
Wonder how they explain it to the heathen Chinee.
Prefer an ounce of opium.
Celestials.
Rank heresy for them.
Prayers for the conversion of Gladstone they had too when he was almost unconscious.
The protestants the same.
Convert Dr. William J. Walsh D. D. to the true religion.
Buddha their god lying on his side in the museum.
Taking it easy with hand under his cheek.
Josssticks burning.
Not like Ecce Homo.
Crown of thorns and cross.
Clever idea Saint Patrick the shamrock.
Chopsticks?
Conmee: Martin Cunningham knows him: distinguished looking.
Sorry I didn’t work him about getting Molly into the choir instead of that Father Farley who looked a fool but wasn’t.
They’re taught that.
He’s not going out in bluey specs with the sweat rolling off him to baptise blacks, is he?
The glasses would take their fancy, flashing.
Like to see them sitting round in a ring with blub lips, entranced, listening.
Still life.
Lap it up like milk, I suppose.
The cold smell of sacred stone called him.
He trod the worn steps, pushed the swingdoor and entered softly by the rere.
Something going on: some sodality.
Pity so empty.
Nice discreet place to be next some girl.
Who is my neighbour?
Jammed by the hour to slow music.
That woman at midnight mass.
Seventh heaven.
Women knelt in the benches with crimson halters round their necks, heads bowed.
A batch knelt at the altar rails.
The priest went along by them, murmuring, holding the thing in his hands.
He stopped at each, took out a communion, shook a drop or two (are they in water?)
off it and put it neatly into her mouth.
Her hat and head sank.
Then the next one: a small old woman.
The priest bent down to put it into her mouth, murmuring all the time.
Latin.
The next one.
Shut your eyes and open your mouth.
What?
Corpus.
Body.
Corpse.
Good idea the Latin.
Stupefies them first.
Hospice for the dying.
They don’t seem to chew it; only swallow it down.
Rum idea: eating bits of a corpse why the cannibals cotton to it.
He stood aside watching their blind masks pass down the aisle, one by one, and seek their places.
He approached a bench and seated himself in its corner, nursing his hat and newspaper.
These pots we have to wear.
We ought to have hats modelled on our heads.
They were about him here and there, with heads still bowed in their crimson halters, waiting for it to melt in their stomachs.
Something like those mazzoth: it’s that sort of bread: unleavened shewbread.
Look at them.
Now I bet it makes them feel happy.
Lollipop.
It does.
Yes, bread of angels it’s called.
There’s a big idea behind it, kind of kingdom of God is within you feel.
First communicants.
Hokypoky penny a lump.
Then feel all like one family party, same in the theatre, all in the same swim.
They do.
I’m sure of that.
Not so lonely.
In our confraternity.
Thencomeoutabigspreeish.
Letoff steam.
Thing is if you really believe in it.
Lourdes cure, waters of oblivion, and the Knock apparition, statues bleeding.
Old fellow asleep near that confession box.
Hence those snores.
Blind faith.
Safe in the arms of kingdom come.
Lulls all pain.
Wake this time next year.
He saw the priest stow the communion cup away, well in, and kneel an instant before it, showing a large grey bootsole from under the lace affair he had on.
Suppose he lost the pin of his.
He wouldn’t know what to do to.
Bald spot behind.
Letters on his back I. N. R. I.?
No: I. H. S. Molly told me one time I asked her.
I have sinned: or no: I have suffered, it is.
And the other one?
Iron nails ran in.
Meet one Sunday after the rosary.
Do not deny my request.
Turn up with a veil and black bag.
Dusk and the light behind her.
She might be here with a ribbon round her neck and do the other thing all the same on the sly.
Their character.
That fellow that turned queen’s evidence on the invincibles he used to receive the, Carey was his name, the communion every morning.
This very church.
Peter Carey.
No, Peter Claver I am thinking of.
Denis Carey.
And just imagine that.
Wife and six children at home.
And plotting that murder all the time.
Those crawthumpers, now that’s a good name for them, there’s always something shiftylooking about them.
They’re not straight men of business either.
O no she’s not here: the flower: no, no.
By the way did I tear up that envelope?
Yes: under the bridge.
The priest was rinsing out the chalice: then he tossed off the dregs smartly.
Wine.
Makes it more aristocratic than for example if he drank what they are used to Guinness’s porter or some temperance beverage Wheatley’s Dublin hop bitters or Cantrell and Cochrane’s ginger ale (aromatic).
Doesn’t give them any of it: shew wine: only the other.
Cold comfort.
Pious fraud but quite right: otherwise they’d have one old booser worse than another coming along, cadging for a drink.
Queer the whole atmosphere of the.
Quite right.
Perfectly right that is.
Mr Bloom looked back towards the choir.
Not going to be any music.
Pity.
Who has the organ here I wonder?
Old Glynn he knew how to make that instrument talk, the vibrato: fifty pounds a year they say he had in Gardiner street.
Molly was in fine voice that day, the Stabat Mater of Rossini.
Father Bernard Vaughan’s sermon first.
Christ or Pilate?
Christ, but don’t keep us all night over it.
Music they wanted.
Footdrill stopped.
Could hear a pin drop.
I told her to pitch her voice against that corner.
I could feel the thrill in the air, the full, the people looking up:  Quis est homo !
Some of that old sacred music is splendid.
Mercadante: seven last words.
Mozart’s twelfth mass: the Gloria in that.
Those old popes were keen on music, on art and statues and pictures of all kinds.
Palestrina for example too.
They had a gay old time while it lasted.
Healthy too chanting, regular hours, then brew liqueurs.
Benedictine.
Green Chartreuse.
Still, having eunuchs in their choir that was coming it a bit thick.
What kind of voice is it?
Must be curious to hear after their own strong basses.
Connoisseurs.
Suppose they wouldn’t feel anything after.
Kind of a placid.
No worry.
Fall into flesh don’t they?
Gluttons, tall, long legs.
Who knows?
Eunuch.
One way out of it.
He saw the priest bend down and kiss the altar and then face about and bless all the people.
All crossed themselves and stood up.
Mr Bloom glanced about him and then stood up, looking over the risen hats.
Stand up at the gospel of course.
Then all settled down on their knees again and he sat back quietly in his bench.
The priest came down from the altar, holding the thing out from him, and he and the massboy answered each other in Latin.
Then the priest knelt down and began to read off a card:  —O God, our refuge and our strength…  Mr Bloom put his face forward to catch the words.
English.
Throw them the bone.
I remember slightly.
How long since your last mass?
Gloria and immaculate virgin.
Joseph her spouse.
Peter and Paul.
More interesting if you understood what it was all about.
Wonderful organisation certainly, goes like clockwork.
Confession.
Everyone wants to.
Then I will tell you all.
Penance.
Punish me, please.
Great weapon in their hands.
More than doctor or solicitor.
Woman dying to.
And I sch-schschschschsch.
And did you chachachachacha?
And why did you?
Look down at her ring to find an excuse.
Whispering gallery walls have ears.
Husband learn to his surprise.
God’s little joke.
Then out she comes.
Repentance skindeep.
Lovely shame.
Pray at an altar.
Hail Mary and Holy Mary.
Flowers, incense, candles melting.
Hide her blushes.
Salvation army blatant imitation.
Reformed prostitute will address the meeting.
How I found the Lord.
Squareheaded chaps those must be in Rome: they work the whole show.
And don’t they rake in the money too?
Bequests also: to the P. P. for the time being in his absolute discretion.
Masses for the repose of my soul to be said publicly with open doors.
Monasteries and convents.
The priest in the Fermanagh will case in the witness box.
No browbeating him.
He had his answer pat for everything.
Liberty and exaltation of our holy mother the church.
The doctors of the church: they mapped out the whole theology of it.
The priest prayed:  —Blessed Michael, archangel, defend us in the hour of conflict.
Be our safeguard against the wickedness and snares of the devil (may God restrain him, we humbly pray): and do thou, O prince of the heavenly host, by the power of God thrust Satan down to hell and with him those other wicked spirits who wander through the world for the ruin of souls.
The priest and the massboy stood up and walked off.
All over.
The women remained behind: thanksgiving.
Better be shoving along.
Brother Buzz.
Come around with the plate perhaps.
Pay your Easter duty.
He stood up.
Hello.
Were those two buttons of my waistcoat open all the time.
Women enjoy it.
Annoyed if you don’t.
Why didn’t you tell me before.
Never tell you.
But we.
Excuse, miss, there’s a (whh!)
just a (whh!)
fluff.
Or their skirt behind, placket unhooked.
Glimpses of the moon.
Still like you better untidy.
Good job it wasn’t farther south.
He passed, discreetly buttoning, down the aisle and out through the main door into the light.
He stood a moment unseeing by the cold black marble bowl while before him and behind two worshippers dipped furtive hands in the low tide of holy water.
Trams: a car of Prescott’s dyeworks: a widow in her weeds.
Notice because I’m in mourning myself.
He covered himself.
How goes the time?
Quarter past.
Time enough yet.
Better get that lotion made up.
Where is this?
Ah yes, the last time.
Sweny’s in Lincoln place.
Chemists rarely move.
Their green and gold beaconjars too heavy to stir.
Hamilton Long’s, founded in the year of the flood.
Huguenot churchyard near there.
Visit some day.
He walked southward along Westland row.
But the recipe is in the other trousers.
O, and I forgot that latchkey too.
Bore this funeral affair.
O well, poor fellow, it’s not his fault.
When was it I got it made up last?
Wait.
I changed a sovereign I remember.
First of the month it must have been or the second.
O he can look it up in the prescriptions book.
The chemist turned back page after page.
Sandy shrivelled smell he seems to have.
Shrunken skull.
And old.
Quest for the philosopher’s stone.
The alchemists.
Drugs age you after mental excitement.
Lethargy then.
Why?
Reaction.
A lifetime in a night.
Gradually changes your character.
Living all the day among herbs, ointments, disinfectants.
All his alabaster lilypots.
Mortar and pestle.
Aq.
Dist.
Fol.
Laur.
Te Virid.
Smell almost cure you like the dentist’s doorbell.
Doctor whack.
He ought to physic himself a bit.
Electuary or emulsion.
The first fellow that picked an herb to cure himself had a bit of pluck.
Simples.
Want to be careful.
Enough stuff here to chloroform you.
Test: turns blue litmus paper red.
Chloroform.
Overdose of laudanum.
Sleeping draughts.
Lovephiltres.
Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough.
Clogs the pores or the phlegm.
Poisons the only cures.
Remedy where you least expect it.
Clever of nature.
—About a fortnight ago, sir?
—Yes, Mr Bloom said.
He waited by the counter, inhaling the keen reek of drugs, the dusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs.
Lot of time taken up telling your aches and pains.
—Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, and then orangeflower water…  It certainly did make her skin so delicate white like wax.
—And white wax also, he said.
Brings out the darkness of her eyes.
Looking at me, the sheet up to her eyes, Spanish, smelling herself, when I was fixing the links in my cuffs.
Those homely recipes are often the best: strawberries for the teeth: nettles and rainwater: oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk.
Skinfood.
One of the old queen’s sons, duke of Albany was it?
had only one skin.
Leopold yes.
Three we have.
Warts, bunions and pimples to make it worse.
But you want a perfume too.
What perfume does your?
Peau d’Espagne.
That orangeflower.
Pure curd soap.
Water is so fresh.
Nice smell these soaps have.
Time to get a bath round the corner.
Hammam.
Turkish.
Massage.
Dirt gets rolled up in your navel.
Nicer if a nice girl did it.
Also I think I.
Yes I.
Do it in the bath.
Curious longing I.
Water to water.
Combine business with pleasure.
Pity no time for massage.
Feel fresh then all day.
Funeral be rather glum.
—Yes, sir, the chemist said.
That was two and nine.
Have you brought a bottle?
—No, Mr Bloom said.
Make it up, please.
I’ll call later in the day and I’ll take one of those soaps.
How much are they?
