Arthur Griffith is a squareheaded fellow but he has no go in him for the mob.
Want to gas about our lovely land.
Gammon and spinach.
Dublin Bakery Company’s tea- room.
Debating societies.
That republicanism is the best form of government.
That the language question should take precedence of the economic question.
Have your daughters inveigling them to your house.
Stuff them up with meat and drink.
Michaelmas goose.
Here’s a good lump of thyme seasoning under the apron for you.
Have another quart of goosegrease before it gets too cold.
Halffed enthusiasts.
Penny roll and a walk with the band.
No grace for the carver.
The thought that the other chap pays best sauce in the world.
Make them- selves thoroughly at home.
Shove us over those apricots meaning peaches.
The not far distant day.
Home Rule sun rising up in the northwest.
His smile faded as he walked, a heavy cloud hiding the sun slowly, shadowing Trinity’s surly front.
Trams passed one another, ingoing, outgoing, clanging.
Useless words.
Things go on same; day after day: squads of police marching out, back: trams in, out.
Those two loonies mooching about.
Dignam carted off.
Mina Purefoy swollen belly on a bed groaning to have a child tugged out of her.
One born every second somewhere.
Other dying every second.
Since I fed the birds five minutes.
Three hundred kicked the bucket.
Other three hundred born, washing the blood off, all are washed in the blood of the lamb, bawling maaaaaa.
Cityful passing away, other cityful coming, passing away too: other coming on, passing on.
Houses, lines of houses, streets, miles of pavements, piledup bricks, stones.
Changing hands.
This owner, that.
Landlord never dies they say.
Other steps into his shoes when he gets his notice to quit.
They buy the place up with gold and still they have all the gold.
Swindle in it some- where.
Piled up in cities, worn away age after age.
Pyramids in sand.
Built on bread and onions.
Slaves.
Chinese wall.
Babylon.
Big stones left.
Round towers.
Rest rubble, sprawling suburbs, jerrybuilt, Kerwan’s mushroom houses, built of breeze.
Shelter for the night.
No one is anything.
This is the very worst hour of the day.
Vitality.
Dull, gloomy: hate this hour.
Feel as if I had been eaten and spewed.
Provost’s house.
The reverend Dr Sahnon: tinned sahnon.
Well tinned in there.
Wouldn’t live in it if they paid me.
Hope they have liver and bacon today.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
The sun freed itself slowly and lit glints of light among the silver ware in Walter Sexton’s window opposite by which John Howard Parnell passed, unseeing.
There he is: the brother.
Image of him.
Haunting face.
Now that’s a coincidence.
Course hundreds of times you think of a person and don’t meet him.
Like a man walking in his sleep.
No-one knows him.
Must be a corporation meeting today.
They say he never put on the city marshal’s uniform since he got the job.
Charley Boulger used to come out on his high horse, cocked hat, puffed, powdered and shaved.
Look at the woebegone walk of him.
Eaten a bad egg.
Poached eyes on ghost.
I have a pain.
Great man’s brother: his brother’s brother.
He’d look nice on the city charger.
Drop into the D. B. C. probably for his coffee, play chess there.
His brother used men as pawns.
Let them all go to pot.
Afraid to pass a remark on him.
Freeze them up with that eye of his.
That’s the fascination: the name.
All a bit touched.
Mad Fanny and his other sister Mrs Dickinson driving about with scarlet harness.
Bolt upright like surgeon M’Ardle.
Still David Sheehy beat him for south Meath.
Apply for the Chiltern Hundreds and retire into public life.
The patriot’s banquet.
Eating orangepeels in the park.
Simon Dedalus said when they put him in parliament that Parnell would come back from the grave and lead him out of the House of Commons by the arm.
—Of the twoheaded octopus, one of whose heads is the head upon which the ends of the world have forgotten to come while the other speaks with a Scotch accent.
The tentacles…  They passed from behind Mr Bloom along the curbstone.
Beard and bicycle.
Young woman.
And there he is too.
Now that’s really a coincidence: secondtime.
Coming events cast their shadows before.
With the approval of the eminent poet Mr Geo Russell.
That might be Lizzie Twigg with him.
A. E.: what does that mean?
Initials perhaps.
Albert Edward, Arthur Edmund, Alphonsus Eb Ed El Esquire.
What was he saying?
The ends of the world with a Scotch accent.
Tentacles: octopus.
Something occult: symbolism.
Holding forth.
She’s taking it all in.
Not saying a word.
To aid gentleman in literary work.
His eyes followed the high figure in homespun, beard and bicycle, a listening woman at his side.
Coming from the vegetarian.
Only, weggebobbles and fruit.
Don’t eat a beefsteak.
If you do the eyes of that cow will pursue you through all eternity.
They say it’s healthier.
Wind and watery though.
Tried it.
Keep you on the run all day.
Bad as a bloater.
Dreams all night.
Why do they call that thing they gave me nutsteak?
Nutarians.
Fruitarians.
To give you the idea you are eating rumpsteak.
Absurd.
Salty too.
They cook in soda.
Keep you sitting by the tap all night.
Her stockings are loose over her ankles.
I detest that: so tasteless.
Those literary etherial people they are all.
Dreamy, cloudy, symbolistic.
Esthetes they are.
I wouldn’t be surprised if it was that kind of food you see produces the like waves of the brain the poetical.
For example one of those policemen sweating Irish stew into their shirts; you couldn’t squeeze a line of poetry out of him.
Don’t know what poetry is even.
Must be in a certain mood.
The dreamy cloudy gull  Waves o’er the waters dull.
He crossed at Nassau street corner and stood before the window of Yeates and Son, pricing the field glasses.
Or will I drop into old Harris’s and have a chat with young Sinclair?
Welhnannered fellow.
Probably at his lunch.
Must get those old glasses of mine set right.
Goerz lenses, six guineas.
Germans making their way everywhere.
Sell on easy terms to capture trade.
Undercutting.
Might chance on a pair in the railway lost property office.
Astonishing the things people leave behind them in trains and cloak rooms.
What do they be thinking about?
Women too.
Incredible.
Last year travelling to Ennis had to pick up that farmer’s daughter’s bag and hand it to her at Limerick junction.
Unclaimed money too.
There’s a little watch up there on the roof of the bank to test those glasses by.
His lids came down on the lower rims of his irides.
Can’t see it.
If you imagine it’s there you can almost see it.
Can’t see it.
He faced about and, standing between the awnings, held out his right hand at arm’s length towards the sun.
Wanted to try that often.
Yes: completely.
The tip of his little finger blotted out the sun’s disk.
Must be the focus where the rays cross.
If I had black glasses.
Interesting.
There was a lot of talk about those sunspots when we were in Lombard street west.
Terrific explosions they are.
There will be a total eclipse this year: autumn some time.
Now that I come to think of it, that ball falls at Greenwich time.
It’s the clock is worked by an electric wire from Dunsink.
Must go out there some first Saturday of the month.
If I could get an introduction to professor Joly or learn up something about his family.
That would do to: man always feels complimented.
Flattery where least expected.
Nobleman proud to be descended from some king’s mistress.
His foremother.
Lay it on with a trowel.
Cap in hand goes through the land.
Not go in and blurt out what you know you’re not to: what’s parallax?
Show this gentleman the door.
Ah.
His hand fell again to his side.
Never know anything about it.
Waste of time.
Gas-balls spinning about, crossing each other, passing.
Same old dingdong always.
Gas, then solid, then world, then cold, then dead shell drifting around, frozen rock like that pineapple rock.
The moon.
Must be a new moon, she said.
I believe there is.
He went on by la Maison Claire.
Wait.
The full moon was the night we were Sunday fortnight exactly there is a new moon.
Walking down by the Tolka.
Not bad for a Fairview moon.
She was humming: The young May moon she’s beaming, love.
He other side of her.
Elbow, arm.
He.
Glowworm’s la-amp is gleaming, love.
Touch.
Fingers.
Asking.
Answer.
Yes.
Stop.
Stop.
If it was it was.
Must.
Mr Bloom, quick breathing, slowlier walking, passed Adam court.
With a keep quiet relief, his eyes took note: this is street here middle of the day Bob Doran’s bottle shoulders.
On his annual bend, M‘Coy said.
They drink in order to say or do something or cherchez la femme.
Up in the Coombe with chummies and streetwalkers and then the rest of the year as sober as a judge.
Yes.
Thought so.
Sloping into the Empire.
Gone.
Plain soda would do him good.
Where Fat Kinsella had his Harp theatre before Whitbred ran the Queen’s.
Broth of a boy.
Dion Boucicault business with his harvestmoon face in a poky bonnet.
Three Purty Maids from School.
How time flies eh?
Showing long red pantaloons under his skirts.
Drinkers, drinking, laughed spluttering, their drink against their breath.
More power, Pat.
Coarse red: fun for drunkards: guffaw and smoke.
Take off that white hat.
His parboiled eyes.
Where is he now?
Beggar somewhere.
The harp that once did starve us all.
I was happier then.
Or was that I?
Or am I now I?
Twentyeight I was.
She twentythree when we left Lombard street west something changed.
Could never like it again after Rudy.
Can’t bring back time.
Like holding water in your hand.
Would you go back to then?
Just beginning then.
Would you?
Are you not happy in your home, you poor little naughty boy?
Wants to sew on buttons for me.
I must answer.
Write it in the library.
Grafton street gay with housed awnings lured his senses.
Muslin prints, silk, dames and dowagers, jingle of harnesses, hoofthuds lowringing in the baking causeway.
Thick feet that woman has in the white stockings.
Hope the rain mucks them up on her.
Country bred chawbacon.
All the beef to the heels were in.
Always gives a woman clumsy feet.
Molly looks out of plumb.
He passed, dallying, the windows of Brown Thomas, silk mercers.
Cascades of ribbons.
Flimsy China silks.
A tilted urn poured from its mouth a flood of bloodhued poplin: lustrous blood.
The huguenots brought that here.
La causa è santa!
Tara tara.
Great chorus that.
Tara.
Must be washed in rainwater.
Meyerbeer.
Tara: bom bom bom.
Pincushions.
I’m a long time threatening to buy one.
Stick them all over the place.
Needles in window curtains.
He bared slightly his left forearm.
Scrape: nearly gone.
Not today anyhow.
Must go back for that lotion.
For her birthday perhaps.
Junejulyaugseptember eighth.
Nearly three months off.
Then she mightn’t like it.
Women won’t pick up pins.
Say it cuts lo.
Gleaming silks, petticoats on slim brass rails, rays of flat silk stockings.
Useless to go back.
Had to be.
Tell me all.
High voices.
Sunwarm silk.
Jingling harnesses.
All for a woman, home and houses, silk webs, silver, rich fruits, spicy from Jaffa.
Agendath Netaim.
Wealth of the world.
A warm human plumpness settled down on his brain.
His brain yielded.
Perfume of embraces all him assailed.
With hungered flesh obscurely, he mutely craved to adore.
Duke street.
Here we are.
Must eat.
The Burton.
Feel better then.
He turned Cambridge’s corner, still pursued.
Jingling hoofthuds.
Perfumed bodies, warm, full.
All kissed, yielded: in deep summer fields, tangled pressed grass, in trickling hallways of tenements, along sofas, creaking beds.
—Jack,love!
—Darling!
—Kiss me, Reggy!
—My boy!
—Love!
His heart astir he pushed in the door of the Burton restaurant.
Stink gripped his trembling breath: pungent meatjuice, slop of greens.
See the animals feed.
Men, men, men.
Perched on high stools by the bar, hats shoved back, at the tables calling for more bread no charge, swilling, wolfing gobfuls of sloppy food, their eyes bulging, wiping wetted moustaches.
A pallid suetfaced young man polished his tumbler knife fork and spoon with his napkin.
New set of microbes.
A man with an infant’s saucestained napkin tucked round him shovelled gurgling soup down his gullet.
A man spitting back on his plate: halfmasticated gristle: no teeth to chewchew-chew it.
Chump chop from the grill.
Bolting to get it over.
Sad booser’s eyes.
Bitten off more than he can chew.
Am I like that?
See ourselves as others see us.
Hungry man is an angry man.
Working tooth and jaw.
Don’t!
O!
A bone!
That last pagan king of Ireland Cormac in the schoolpoem choked himself at Sletty southward of the Boyne.
Wonder what he was eating.
Something galoptious.
Saint Patrick converted him to Christianity.
Couldn’t swallow it all however.
—Roast beef and cabbage.
—One stew.
Smells of men.
His gorge rose.
Spaton sawdust, sweetish warmish cigarette smoke, reek of plug, spilt beer, men’s beery piss, the stale of ferment.
Couldn’t eat a morsel here.
Fellow sharpening knife and fork, to eat all before him, old chap picking his tootles.
Slight spasm, full, chewing the cud.
Before and after.
Grace after meals.
Look on this picture then on that.
Scoffing up stewgravy with sopping sippets of bread.
Lick it off the plate, man!
Get out of this.
He gazed round the stooled and tabled eaters, tightening the wings of his nose.
—Two stouts here.
—One corned and cabbage.
That fellow ramming a knifeful of cabbage down as if his life depended on it.
Good stroke.
Give me the fidgets to look.
Safer to eat from his three hands.
Tear it limb from limb.
Second nature to him.
Born with a silver knife in his mouth.
That’s witty, I think.
Or no.
Silver means born rich.
Born with a knife.
But then the allusion is lost.
An illgirt server gathered sticky clattering plates.
Rock, the bailiff, standing at the bar blew the foamy crown from his tankard.
Well up: it splashed yellow near his boot.
A diner, knife and fork upright, elbows on table, ready for a second helping stared towards the foodlift across his stained square of newspaper.
Other chap telling him something with his mouth full.
Sympathetic listener.
Table talk.
I munched hum un thu Unchster Bunk un Munchday.
Ha?
Did you, faith?
Mr Bloom raised two fingers doubtfully to his lips.
His eyes said.
—Not here.
Don’t see him.
Out.
I hate dirty eaters.
He backed towards the door.
Get a light snack in Davy Byrne’s.
Stopgap.
Keep me going.
Had a good breakfast.
—Roast and mashed here.
—Pint of stout.
Every fellow for his own, tooth and nail.
Gulp.
Grub.
Gulp.
Gobstuff.
He came out into clearer air and turned back towards Grafton street.
Eat or be eaten.
Kill!
Kill!
