Depends on the time they were born, I suppose.
Or all start scratch then get out of step.
Sometimes Molly and Milly together.
Anyhow I got the best of that.
Damned glad I didn’t do it in the bath this morning over her silly I will punish you letter.
Made up for that tramdriver this morning.
That gouger M’Coy stopping me to say nothing.
And his wife engagement in the country valise, voice like a pickaxe.
Thankful for small mercies.
Cheap too.
Yours for the asking.
Because they want it themselves.
Their natural craving.
Shoals of them every evening poured out of offices.
Reserve better.
Don’t want it they throw it at you.
Catch em alive, O.
Pity they can’t see themselves.
A dream of wellfilled hose.
Where was that?
Ah, yes.
Mutoscope pictures in Capel street: for men only.
Peeping Tom.
Willy’s hat and what the girls did with it.
Do they snapshot those girls or is it all a fake?
Lingerie does it.
Felt for the curves inside her deshabillé.
Excites them also when they’re.
I’m all clean come and dirty me.
And they like dressing one another for the sacrifice.
Milly delighted with Molly’s new blouse.
At first.
Put them all on to take them all off.
Molly.
Why I bought her the violet garters.
Us too: the tie he wore, his lovely socks and turnedup trousers.
He wore a pair of gaiters the night that first we met.
His lovely shirt was shining beneath his what?
of jet.
Say a woman loses a charm with every pin she takes out.
Pinned together.
O Mairy lost the pin of her.
Dressed up to the nines for somebody.
Fashion part of their charm.
Just changes when you’re on the track of the secret.
Except the east: Mary, Martha: now as then.
No reasonable offer refused.
She wasn’t in a hurry either.
Always off to a fellow when they are.
They never forget an appointment.
Out on spec probably.
They believe in chance because like themselves.
And the others inclined to give her an odd dig.
Girl friends at school, arms round each other’s necks or with ten fingers locked, kissing and whispering secrets about nothing in the convent garden.
Nuns with whitewashed faces, cool coif and their rosaries going up and down, vindictive too for what they can’t get.
Barbed wire.
Be sure now and write to me.
And I’ll write to you.
Now won’t you?
Molly and Josie Powell.
Till Mr Right comes along then meet once in a blue moon.
Tableau !
O, look who it is for the love of God!
How are you at all?
What have you been doing with yourself?
Kiss and delighted to, kiss, to see you.
Picking holes in each other’s appearance.
You’re looking splendid.
Sister souls showing their teeth at one another.
How many have you left?
Wouldn’t lend each other a pinch of salt.
Ah!
Devils they are when that’s coming on them.
Dark devilish appearance.
Molly often told me feel things a ton weight.
Scratch the sole of my foot.
O that way!
O, that’s exquisite!
Feel it myself too.
Good to rest once in a way.
Wonder if it’s bad to go with them then.
Safe in one way.
Turns milk, makes fiddlestrings snap.
Something about withering plants I read in a garden.
Besides they say if the flower withers she wears she’s a flirt.
All are.
Daresay she felt I.
When you feel like that you often meet what you feel.
Liked me or what?
Dress they look at.
Always know a fellow courting: collars and cuffs.
Well cocks and lions do the same and stags.
Same time might prefer a tie undone or something.
Trousers?
Suppose I when I was?
No.
Gently does it.
Dislike rough and tumble.
Kiss in the dark and never tell.
Saw something in me.
Wonder what.
Sooner have me as I am than some poet chap with bearsgrease, plastery hair lovelock over his dexter optic.
To aid gentleman in literary.
Ought to attend to my appearance my age.
Didn’t let her see me in profile.
Still, you never know.
Pretty girls and ugly men marrying.
Beauty and the beast.
Besides I can’t be so if Molly.
Took off her hat to show her hair.
Wide brim bought to hide her face, meeting someone might know her, bend down or carry a bunch of flowers to smell.
Hair strong in rut.
Ten bob I got for Molly’s combings when we were on the rocks in Holies street.
Why not?
Suppose he gave her money.
Why not?
All a prejudice.
She’s worth ten, fifteen, more a pound.
All that for nothing.
Bold hand.
Mrs Marion.
Did I forget to write address on that letter like the postcard I sent to Flynn?
And the day I went to Drimmie’s without a necktie.
Wrangle with Molly it was put me off.
No, I remember.
Richie Goulding.
He’s another.
Weighs on his mind.
Funny my watch stopped at half past four.
Dust.
Shark liver oil they use to clean could do it myself.
Save.
Was that just when he, she?
O, he did.
Into her.
She did.
Done.
Ah!
Mr Bloom with careful hand recomposed his wet shirt.
O Lord, that little limping devil.
Begins to feel cold and clammy.
Aftereffect not pleasant.
Still you have to get rid of it someway.
They don’t care.
Complimented perhaps.
Go home to nicey bread and milky and say night prayers with the kiddies.
Well, aren’t they.
See her as she is spoil all.
Must have the stage setting, the rouge, costume, position, music.
The name too.
Amours of actresses.
Nell Gwynn, Mrs Bracegirdle, Maud Branscombe.
Curtain up.
Moonlight silver effulgence.
Maiden discovered with pensive bosom.
Little sweetheart come and kiss me.
Still I feel.
The strength it gives a man.
That’s the secret of it.
Good job I let off there behind coming out of Dignam’s.
Cider that was.
Otherwise I couldn’t have.
Makes you want to sing after.
Lacaus esant taratara.
Suppose I spoke to her.
What about?
Bad plan however if you don’t know how to end the conversation.
Ask them a question they ask you another.
Good idea if you’re in a cart.
Wonderful of course if you say: good evening, and you see she’s on for it: good evening.
O but the dark evening in the Appian way I nearly spoke to Mrs Clinch O thinking she was.
Whew!
Girl in Meath street that night.
All the dirty things I made her say all wrong of course.
My arks she called it.
It’s so hard to find one who.
Aho!
If you don’t answer when they solicit must be horrible for them till they harden.
And kissed my hand when I gave her the extra two shillings.
Parrots.
Press the button and the bird will squeak.
Wish she hadn’t called me sir.
Oh, her mouth in the dark!
And you a married man with a single girl!
That’s what they enjoy.
Taking a man from another woman.
Or even hear of it.
Different with me.
Glad to get away from other chap’s wife.
Eating off his cold plate.
Chap in the Burton today spitting back gumchewed gristle.
French letter still in my pocketbook.
Cause of half the trouble.
But might happen sometime, I don’t think.
Come in.
All is prepared.
I dreamt.
What?
Worst is beginning.
How they change the venue when it’s not what they like.
Ask you do you like mushrooms because she once knew a gentleman who.
Or ask you what someone was going to say when he changed his mind and stopped.
Yet if I went the whole hog, say: I want to, something like that.
Because I did.
She too.
Offend her.
Then make it up.
Pretend to want something awfully, then cry off for her sake.
Flatters them.
She must have been thinking of someone else all the time.
What harm?
Must since she came to the use of reason, he, he and he.
First kiss does the trick.
The propitious moment.
Something inside them goes pop.
Mushy like, tell by their eye, on the sly.
First thoughts are best.
Remember that till their dying day.
Molly, lieutenant Mulvey that kissed her under the Moorish wall beside the gardens.
Fifteen she told me.
But her breasts were developed.
Fell asleep then.
After Gencree dinner that was when we drove home the featherbed mountain.
Gnashing her teeth in sleep.
Lord mayor had his eye on her too.
Val Dillon.
Apoplectic.
There she is with them down there for the fireworks.
My fireworks.
Up like a rocket, down like a stick.
And the children, twins they must be, waiting for something to happen.
Want to be grownups.
Dressing in mother’s clothes.
Time enough, understand all the ways of theworld.
And the dark one with the mop head and the nigger mouth.
I knew she could whistle.
Mouth made for that.
Like Molly.
Why that high class whore in Jam-met’s wore her veil only to her nose.
Would you mind, please, telling me the right time?
I’ll tell you the right time up a dark lane.
Say prunes and prisms forty times every morning, cure for fat lips.
Caressing the little boy too.
Onlookers see most of the game.
Of course they understand birds, animals, babies.
In their line.
Didn’t look back when she was going down the strand.
Wouldn’t give that satisfaction.
Those girls, those girls, those lovely seaside girls.
Fine eyes she had, clear.
It’s the white of the eye brings that out not so much the pupil.
Did she know what I?
Course.
Like a cat sitting beyond a dog’s jump.
Women never meet one like that Wilkins in the high school drawing a picture of Venus with all his belongings on show.
Call that innocence?
Poor idiot!
His wife has her work cut out for her.
Never see them sit on a bench marked Wet Paint.
Eyes all over them.
Look under the bed for what’s not there.
Longing to get the fright of their lives.
Sharp as needles they are.
When I said to Molly the man at the corner of Cuffe street was goodlooking, thought she might like, twigged at once he had a false arm.
Had too.
Where do they get that?
Typist going up Roger Greene’s stairs two at a time to show her understandings.
Handed down from father to mother to daughter, I mean.
Bred in the bone.
Milly for example drying her handkerchief on the mirror to save the ironing.
Best place for an ad to catch a woman’s eye on a mirror.
And when I sent her for Molly’s Paisley shawl to Presscott’s, by the way that ad I must, carrying home the change in her stocking.
Clever little minx!
I never told her.
Neat way she carried parcels too.
Attract men, small thing like that.
Holding up her hand, shaking it, to let the blood flow back when it was red.
Who did you learn that from?
Nobody.
Something the nurse taught me.
O, don’t they know?
Three years old she was in front of Molly’s dressingtable just before we left Lombard street west.
Me have a nice face.
Mullingar.
Who knows?
Ways of the world.
Young student.
Straight on her pins anyway not like the other.
Still she was game.
Lord, I am wet.
Devil you are.
Swell of her calf.
Transparent stockings, stretched to breaking point.
Not like that frump today.
A. E. Rumpled stockings.
Or the one in Grafton street.
White.
Wow!
Beef to the heel.
A monkey puzzle rocket burst, spluttering in darting crackles.
Zrads and zrads, zrads, zrads.
And Cissy and Tommy ran out to see and Edy after with the pushcar and then Gerty beyond the curve of the rocks.
Will she?
Watch!
Watch!
See!
Looked round.
She smelt an onion.
Darling, I saw your.
I saw all.
Lord!
Did me good all the same.
Off colour after Kiernan’s, Dignam’s.
For this relief much thanks.
In Hamlet, that is.
Lord!
It was all things combined.
Excitement.
When she leaned back felt an ache at the butt of my tongue.
Your head it simply swirls.
He’s right.
Might have made a worse fool of myself however.
Instead of talking about nothing.
Then I will tell you all.
Still it was a kind of language between us.
It couldn’t be?
No, Gerty they called her.
Might be false name however like my and the address Dolphin’s barn a bund.
Her maiden name was jemina Brown  And she lived with her mother in Irishtown.
Place made me think of that I suppose.
All tarred with the same brush.
Wiping pens in their stockings.
But the ball rolled down to her as if it understood.
Every bullet has its billet.
Course I never could throw anything straight at school.
Crooked as a ram’s horn.
Sad however because it lasts only a few years till they settle down to potwalloping and papa’s pants will soon fit Willy and fullers’ earth for the baby when they hold him out to do ah ah.
No soft job.
Saves them.
Keeps them out of harm’s way.
Nature.
Washing child, washing corpse.
Dignam.
Children’s hands always round them.
Cocoanut skulls, monkeys, not even closed at first, sour milk in their swaddles and tainted curds.
Oughtn’t to have given that child an empty teat to suck.
Fill it up with wind.
Mrs Beaufoy, Purefoy.
Must call to the hospital.
Wonder is nurse Callan there still.
She used to look over some nights when Molly was in the Coffee Palace.
That young doctor O’Hare I noticed her brushing his coat.
And, Mrs Breen and Mrs Dignam once like that too, marriageable.
Worst of all at night Mrs Duggan told me in the City Arms.
Husband rolling in drunk, stink of pub off him like a polecat.
Have that in your nose in the dark, whiff of stale boose.
Then ask in the morning: was I drunk last night?
Bad policy however to fault the husband.
Chickens come home to roost.
They stick by one another like glue.
Maybe the women’s fault also.
That’s where Molly can knock spots off them.
It is the blood of the south.
Moorish.
Also the form, the figure.
Hands felt for the opulent.
Just compare for instance those others.
Wife locked up at home, skeleton in the cupboard.
Allow me to introduce my.
Then they trot you out some kind of a nondescript, wouldn’t know what to call her.
Always see a fellow’s weak point in his wife.
Still there’s destiny in it, falling in love.
Have their own secrets between them.
Chaps that would go to the dogs if some woman didn’t take them in hand.
Then little chits of girls, height of a shilling in coppers, with little hubbies.
As God made them He matched them.
Sometimes children turn out well enough.
Twice nought makes one.
Or old rich chap of seventy and blushing bride.
Marry in May and repent in December.
This wet is very unpleasant.
Stuck.
Well the foreskin is not back.
Better detach.
Ow!
Other hand a sixfooter with a wifey up to his watch-pocket.
Long and the short of it.
Big he and little she.
Very strange about my watch.
Wristwatches are always going wrong.
Wonder is there any magnetic influence between the person because that was about the time he.
Yes, I suppose at once.
Cat’s away the mice will play.
I remember looking in Pill lane.
Also that now is magnetism.
Back of everything magnetism.
Earth for instance pulling this and being pulled.
That causes movement.
And time?
Well that’s the time the movement takes.
