I’m bloody sorry I did it, says he, but I declare to God I thought the archbishop was inside.
He mightn’t like it, though.
What?
God, I’ll tell him anyhow.
That was the great earl, the Fitzgerald Mor.
Hot members they were all of them, the Geraldines.
The horses he passed started nervously under their slack harness.
He slapped a piebald haunch quivering near him and cried:  —Woa, sonny!
He turned to J. J. O’Molloy and asked:  —Well, Jack.
What is it?
What’s the trouble?
Wait a while.
Hold hard.
With gaping mouth and head far back he stood still and, after an instant, sneezed loudly.
—Chow!
he said.
Blast you!
—The dust from those sacks, J. J. O’Molloy said politely.
—No, Ned Lambert gasped, I caught a…cold night before…blast your soul…night before last…and there was a hell of a lot of draught…  He held his handkerchief ready for the coming…  —I was…this morning…poor little…what do you call him…Chow!…Mother of Moses!
Tom Rochford took the top disk from the pile he clasped against his claret waistcoat.
—See?
he said.
Say it’s turn six.
In here, see.
Turn Now On.
He slid it into the left slot for them.
It shot down the groove, wobbled a while, ceased, ogling them: six.
Lawyers of the past, haughty, pleading, beheld pass from the consolidated taxing office to Nisi Prius court Richie Goulding carrying the costbag of Goulding, Collis and Ward and heard rustling from the admiralty division of king’s bench to the court of appeal an elderly female with false teeth smiling incredulously and a black silk skirt of great amplitude.
—See?
he said.
See now the last one I put in is over here.
Turns Over.
The impact.
Leverage, see?
He showed them the rising column of disks on the right.
—Smart idea, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling.
So a fellow coming in late can see what turn is on and what turns are over.
—See?
Tom Rochford said.
He slid in a disk for himself: and watched it shoot, wobble, ogle, stop: four.
Turn Now On.
—I’ll see him now in the Ormond, Lenehan said, and sound him.
One good turn deserves another.
—Do, Tom Rochford said.
Tell him I’m Boylan with impatience.
—Goodnight, M’Coy said abruptly, when you two begin…  Nosey Flynn stooped towards the lever, snuffling at it.
—But how does it work here, Tommy?
he asked.
—Tooraloo, Lenehan said, see you later.
He followed M’Coy out across the tiny square of Crampton court.
—He’s a hero, he said simply.
—I know, M’Coy said.
The drain, you mean.
—Drain?
Lenehan said.
It was down a manhole.
They passed Dan Lowry’s musichall where Marie Kendall, charming soubrette, smiled on them from a poster a dauby smile.
Going down the path of Sycamore street beside the Empire musichall Lenehan showed M’Coy how the whole thing was.
One of those manholes like a bloody gaspipe and there was the poor devil stuck down in it half choked with sewer gas.
Down went Tom Rochford anyhow, booky’s vest and all, with the rope round him.
And be damned but he got the rope round the poor devil and the two were hauled up.
—The act of a hero, he said.
At the Dolphin they halted to allow the ambulance car to gallop past them for Jervis street.
—This way, he said, walking to the right.
I want to pop into Lynam’s to see Sceptre’s starting price.
What’s the time by your gold watch and chain?
M’Coy peered into Marcus Tertius Moses’ sombre office, then at O’Neill’s clock.
—After three, he said.
Who’s riding her?
—O.
Madden, Lenehan said.
And a game filly she is.
While he waited in Temple bar M’Coy dodged a banana peel with gentle pushes of his toe from the path to the gutter.
Fellow might damn easy get a nasty fall there coming along tight in the dark.
The gates of the drive opened wide to give egress to the viceregal cavalcade.
—Even money, Lenehan said returning.
I knocked against Bantam Lyons in there going to back a bloody horse someone gave him that hasn’t an earthly.
Through here.
They went up the steps and under Merchants’ arch.
A darkbacked figure scanned books on the hawker’s cart.
—There he is, Lenehan said.
—Wonder what he is buying, M’Coy said, glancing behind.
—Leopoldo or the Bloom is on the Rye, Lenehan said.
—He’s dead nuts on sales, M’Coy said.
I was with him one day and he bought a book from an old one in Liffey street for two bob.
There were fine plates in it worth double the money, the stars and the moon and comets with long tails.
Astronomy it was about.
Lenehan laughed.
—I’ll tell you a damn good one about comets’ tails, he said.
Come over in the sun.
They crossed to the metal bridge and went along Wellington quay by the river wall.
Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam came out of Mangan’s, late Fehrenbach’s, carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks.
—There was a big spread out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan said eagerly.
The annual dinner you know.
Boiled shirt affair.
The lord mayor was there, Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan Dawson spoke and there was music.
Bartell D’Arcy sang and Benjamin Dollard…  —I know, M’Coy broke in.
My missus sang there once.
—Did she?
Lenehan said.
A card Unfurnished Apartments reappeared on the windowsash of number 7 Eccles street.
He checked his tale a moment but broke out in a wheezy laugh.
—But wait till I tell you, he said.
Delahunt of Camden street had the catering and yours truly was chief bottle-washer.
Bloom and the wife were there.
Lashings of stuff we put up: port wine and sherry and curacao to which we did ample justice.
Fast and furious it was.
After liquids came solids.
Cold joints galore and mince pies…  —I know, M’Coy said.
The year the missus was there…  Lenehan linked his arm warmly.
—But wait till I tell you, he said.
We had a midnight lunch too after all the jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o’clock the morning after the night before.
Coming home it was a gorgeous winter’s night on the Featherbed Mountain.
Bloom and Chris Callinan were on one side of the car and I was with the wife on the other.
We started singing glees and duets: Lo, the early beam of morning.
She was well primed with a good load of Delahunt’s port under her bellyband.
Every jolt the bloody car gave I had her bumping up against me.
Hell’s delights!
She has a fine pair, God bless her.
Like that.
He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning:  —I was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the time.
Know what I mean?
His hands moulded ample curves of air.
He shut his eyes tight in delight, his body shrinking, and blew a sweet chirp from his lips.
—The lad stood to attention anyhow, he said with a sigh.
She’s a gamey mare and no mistake.
Bloom was pointing out all the stars and the comets in the heavens to Chris Callinan and the jarvey: the great bear and Hercules and the dragon and the whole jingbang lot.
But, by God, I was lost, so to speak, in the milky way.
He knows them all, faith.
At last she spotted a weeny weeshy one miles away.
And what star is that, Poldy?
says she.
By God, she had Bloom cornered.
That one, is it?
says Chris Callinan, sure that’s only what you might call a pinprick.
By God, he wasn’t far wide of the mark.
Lenehan stopped and leaned on the riverwall, panting with soft laughter.
—I’m weak, he gasped.
M’Coy’s white face smiled about it at instants and grew grave.
Lenehan walked on again.
He lifted his yachtingcap and scratched his hindhead rapidly.
He glanced sideways in the sunlight at M’Coy.
—He’s a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he said seriously.
He’s not one of your common or garden…you know…There’s a touch of the artist about old Bloom.
Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of The Awful Disclosures of Maria Monk, then of Aristotle’s Masterpiece.
Crooked botched print.
Plates: infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs like livers of slaughtered cows.
Lots of them like that at this moment all over the world.
All butting with their skulls to get out of it.
Child born every minute somewhere.
Mrs Purefoy.
He laid both books aside and glanced at the third: Tales of the Ghetto by Leopold von Sacher Masoch.
—That I had, he said, pushing it by.
The shopman let two volumes fall on the counter.
—Them are two good ones, he said.
Onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruined mouth.
He bent to make a bundle of the other books, hugged them against his unbuttoned waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain.
On O’Connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment and gay apparel of Mr Denis J. Maginni, professor of dancing &c.  Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles.
Fair Tyrants by James Lovebirch.
Know the kind that is.
Had it?
Yes.
He opened it.
Thought so.
A woman’s voice behind the dingy curtain.
Listen: The man.
No: she wouldn’t like that much.
Got her it once.
He read the other title: Sweets of Sin.
More in her line.
Let us see.
He read where his finger opened.
—All the dollarbills her husband gave her were spent in the stores on wondrous gowns and costliest frillies.
For him !
For Raoul!
Yes.
This.
Here.
Try.
—Her mouth glued on his in a luscious voluptuous kiss while his hands felt for the opulent curves inside her deshabille.
Yes.
Take this.
The end.
—You are late, he spoke hoarsely, eyeing her with a suspicious glare.
The beautiful woman threw off her sabletrimmed wrap, displaying her queenly shoulders and heaving embonpoint.
An imperceptible smile played round her perfect lips as she turned, to him calmly.
Mr Bloom read again: The beautiful woman.
Warmth showered gently over him, cowing his flesh.
Flesh yielded amid rumpled clothes.
Whites of eyes swooning up.
His nostrils arched themselves for prey.
Melting breast ointments (for him!
For Raoul!).
Armpits’ oniony sweat.
Fishgluey slime (her heaving embonpoint I).
Feel!
Press!
Crushed!
Sulphur dung of lions!
Young!
Young!
An elderly female, no more young, left the building of the courts of chancery, king’s bench, exchequer and common pleas, having heard in the lord chancellor’s court the case in lunacy of Potterton, in the admiralty division the summons, exparte motion, of the owners of the Lady Cairns versus the owners of the barque Mona, in the court of appeal reservation of judgment in the case of Harvey versus the Ocean Accident and Guarantee Corporation.
Phlegmy coughs shook the air of the bookshop, bulging out the dingy curtains.
The shopman’s uncombed grey head came out and his unshaven reddened face, coughing.
He raked his throat rudely, spat phlegm on the floor.
He put his boot on what he had spat, wiping his sole along it and bent, showing a rawskinned crown, scantily haired.
Mr Bloom beheld it.
Mastering his troubled breath, he said:  —I’ll take this one.
The shopman lifted eyes bleared with old rheum.
—Sweets of Sin, he said, tapping on it.
That’s a good one.
The lacquey by the door of Dillon’s auctionrooms shook his handbell twice again and viewed himself in the chalked mirror of the cabinet.
Dilly Dedalus, listening by the curbstone, heard tie beats of the bell, the cries of the auctioneer within.
Four and nine.
Those lovely curtains.
Five shillings.
Cosy curtains.
Selling new at two guineas.
Any advance on five shillings?
Going for five shillings.
The lacquey lifted his handbell and shook it:  —Barang!
Bang of the lastlap bell spurred the halfmile wheelmen to their sprint.
J.
A. Jackson, W. E. Wylie, A. Munro and H. T. Gahan, their stretched necks wagging, negotiated the curve by the College Library.
Mr Dedalus, tugging a long moustache, came round from Williams’s row.
He halted near his daughter.
—It’s time for you, she said.
—Stand up straight for the love of the Lord Jesus, Mr Dedalus said.
Are you trying to imitate your uncle John the cornetplayer, head upon shoulders?
Melancholy God!
Dilly shrugged her shoulders.
Mr Dedalus placed his hands on them and held them back.
—Stand up straight, girl, he said.
You’ll get curvature of the spine.
Do you know what you look like?
He let his head sink suddenly down and forward, hunching his shoulders and dropping his underjaw.
—Give it up, father, Dilly said.
All the people are looking at you.
Mr Dedalus drew himself upright and tugged again at his moustache.
—Did you get any money?
Dilly asked.
—Where would I get money?
Mr Dedalus said.
There is no-one in Dublin would lend me fourpence.
—You got some, Dilly said, looking in his eyes.
—How do you know that?
Mr Dedalus asked, his tongue in his cheek.
Mr Kernan, pleased with the order he had booked, walked boldly along James’s street.
—I know you did, Dilly answered.
Were you in the Scotch house now?
—I was not then, Mr Dedalus said, smiling.
Was it the little nuns taught you to be so saucy?
Here.
He handed her a shilling.
—See if you can do anything with that, he said.
—I suppose you got five, Dilly said.
Give me more than that.
—Wait awhile, Mr Dedalus said threateningly.
You’re like the rest of them, are you?
An insolent pack of little bitches since your poor mother died.
But wait awhile.
You’ll all get a short shrift and a long day from me.
Low blackguardism!
I’m going to get rid of you.
Wouldn’t care if I was stretched out stiff.
He’s dead.
The man upstairs is dead.
He left her and walked on.
Dilly followed quickly and pulled his coat.
—Well, what is it?
he said, stopping The lacquey rang his bell behind their backs.
—Barang!
—Curse your bloody blatant soul, Mr Dedalus cried, turning on him.
The lacquey, aware of comment, shook the lolling clapper of his bell but feebly:  Mr Dedalus stared at him.
—Watch him, he said.
It’s instructive.
I wonder will he allow us to talk.
—You got more than that, father, Dilly said.
—I’m going to show you a little trick, Mr Dedalus said.
I’ll leave you all where Jesus left the jews.
Look, that’s all I have.
I got two shillings from Jack Power and I spent twopence for a shave for the funeral.
He drew forth a handful of copper coins nervously.
—Can’t you look for some money somewhere?
Dilly said.
Mr Dedalus thought and nodded.
—I will, he said gravely.
I looked all along the gutter in O’Connell street.
I’ll try this one now.
—You’re very funny, Dilly said, grinning.
—Here, Mr Dedalus said, handing her two pennies.
Get a glass of milk for yourself and a bun or a something.
I’ll be home shortly.
He put the other coins in his pocket and started to walk on.
The viceregal cavalcade passed, greeted by obsequious policemen, out of Parkgate.
—I’m sure you have another shilling, Dilly said.
The lacquey banged loudly.
Mr Dedalus amid the din walked off, murmuring to himself with a pursing mincing mouth: —The little nuns!
Nice little things!
O, sure they wouldn’t do anything!
O, sure they wouldn’t really!
Is it little sister Monica!
From the sundial towards James’s Gate walked Air Kernan pleased with the order he had booked for Pulbrook Robertson boldly along James’s street, past Shackleton’s offices.
Got round him all right.
How do you do, Mr Crimmins?
First rate, sir.
I was afraid you might be up in your other establishment in Pimlico.
How are tilings going?
Just keeping alive.
Lovely weather we are having.
Yes, indeed.
Good for the country.
Those farmers are always grumbling.
I’ll just take a thimbleful of your best gin, Mr Crimmins.
A small gin, sir.
Yes, sir.
Terrible affair that General Slocum explosion.
Terrible, terrible!
A thousand casualties.
And heartrending scenes.
Men trampling down women and children.
Most brutal thing.
What do they say was the cause?
Spontaneous combustion: most scandalous revelation.
Not a single lifeboat would float and the firehose all burst.
What I can’t understand is how the inspectors ever allowed a boat like that…Now you are talking straight, Mr Crimmins.
You know why?
Palmoil.
Is that a fact?
Without a doubt.
Well now, look at that.
And America they say is the land of the free.
I thought we were bad here.
I smiled at him.
America, I said, quietly, just like that.
What is it?
The sweepings of every country including our own.
Isn’t that true?
That’s a fact.
Graft, my dear sir.
Well, of course, where there’s money going there’s always someone to pick it up.
Saw him looking at my frockcoat.
Dress does it.
Nothing like a dressy appearance.
Bowls them over.
—Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said.
How are things?
—Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus answered stopping.
Mr Kernan halted and preened himself before the sloping mirror of Peter Kennedy, hairdresser.
Stylish coat, beyond a doubt.
Scott of Dawson street.
Well worth the half sovereign I gave Neary for it.
Never built under three guineas.
Fits me down to the ground.
Some Kildare street club toff had it probably.
John Mulligan, the manager of the Hibernian bank, gave me a very sharp eye yesterday on Carlisle bridge as if he remembered me.
Aham!
Must dress the character for those fellows.
Knight of the road.
Gentleman.
And now, Mr Crimmins, may we have the honour of your custom again, sir.
The cup that cheers but not inebriates, as the old saying has it.
North wall and sir John Rogerson’s quay, with hulls and anchorchains, sailing westward, sailed by a skiff, a crumpled throwaway, rocked on the ferry-wash, Elijah is coming.
Mr Kernan glanced in farewell at his image.
High colour, of course.
Grizzled moustache.
Returned Indian officer.
Bravely he bore his stumpy body forward on spatted feet, squaring his shoulders.
Is that Lambert’s brother over the way, Sam?
What?
Yes.
He’s as like it as damn it.
No.
The windscreen of that motorcar in the sun there.
Just a flash like that.
Damn like him.
Aham!
Hot spirit of juniper juice warmed his vitals and his breath.
Good drop of gin, that was.
His frocktails winked in bright sunshine to his fat strut.
Down there Emmet was hanged, drawn and quartered.
Greasy black rope.
Dogs licking the blood off the street when the lord lieutenant’s wife drove by in her noddy.
Let me see.
Is he buried in saint Michan’s?
Or no, there was a midnight burial in Glasnevin.
Corpse brought in through a secret door in the wall.
Dignam is there now.
Went out in a puff.
Well, well.
Better turn down here.
Make a detour.
Mr Kernan turned and walked down the slope of Walling street by the corner of Guinness’s visitors’ waitingroom.
Outside the Dublin Distillers Company’s stores an outside car without fare or jarvey stood, die reins knotted to the wheel.
Damn dangerous thing.
Some Tipperary bosthoon endangering the lives of the citizens.
Runaway horse.
Denis Breen with his tomes, weary of having waited an hour in John Henry Menton’s office, led his wife over O’Connell bridge, bound for the office of Messrs Collis and Ward.
Mr Kernan approached Island street.
Times of the troubles.
