Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Up the quay went Lionelleopold, naughty Henry with letter for Mady, with sweets of sin with frillies for Raoul with met him pike hoses went Poldy on.
Tap blind walked tapping by the tap the curbstone tapping, tap by tap.
Cowley, he stunts himself with it; kind of drunkenness.
Better give way only halfway the way of a man with a maid.
Instance enthusiasts.
All ears.
Not lose a demisemiquaver.
Eyes shut.
Head nodding in time.
Dotty.
You daren’t budge.
Thinking strictly prohibited.
Always talking shop.
Fiddlefaddle about notes.
All a kind of attempt to talk.
Unpleasant when it stops because you never know exac.
Organ in Gardiner street.
Old Glynn fifty quid a year.
Queer up there in the cockloft alone with stops and locks and keys.
Seated all day at the organ.
Maunder on for hours, talking to himself or the other fellow blowing the bellows.
Growl angry, then shriek cursing (want to have wadding or something in his no don’t she cried), then all of a soft sudden wee little wee little pippy wind.
Pwee!
A wee little wind piped eeee.
In Bloom’s little wee.
—Was he?
Mr Dedalus said, returning, with fetched pipe.
I was with him this morning at poor little Paddy Dignam’s…  —Ay, the Lord have mercy on him.
—By the by there’s a tuningfork in there on the…  Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
—The wife has a fine voice.
Or had.
What?
Lidwell asked.
—O, that must be the tuner, Lydia said to Simon-lionel first I saw, forgot it when he was here.
Blind he was she told George Lidwell second I saw.
And played so exquisitely, treat to hear.
Exquisite contrast: bronzelid minagold.
—Shout!
Ben Dollard shouted, pouring.
Sing out!
—’lido!
cried Father Cowley.
Rrrrrr.
I feel I want…  Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Tap,  —Very, Mr Dedalus said, staring hard at a headless sardine.
Under the sandwichbell lay on a bier of bread one last, one lonely, last sardine of summer.
Bloom alone.
—Very, he stared.
The lower register, for choice.
Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Tap.
Bloom went by Barry’s.
Wish I could.
Wait.
That wonderworker if I had.
Twentyfour solicitors in that one house.
Litigation.
Love one another.
Piles of parchment.
Messrs Pick and Pocket have power of attorney.
Goulding, Collis, Ward.
But for example the chap that wallops the big drum.
His vocation: Micky Rooney’s band.
Wonder how it first struck him.
Sitting at home after pig’s cheek and cabbage nursing it in the armchair.
Rehearsing his band part.
Pom.
Pompedy.
Jolly for the wife.
Asses’ skins.
Welt them through life, then wallop after death.
Pom.
Wallop.
Seems to be what you call yashmak or I mean kismet.
Fate.
Tap.
Tap.
A stripling, blind, with a tapping cane, came taptaptapping by Daly’s window where a mermaid, hair all streaming (but he couldn’t see), blew whiffs of a mermaid (blind couldn’t), mermaid coolest whiff of all.
Instruments.
A blade of grass, shell of her hands, then blow.
Even comb and tissuepaper you can knock a tune out of.
Molly in her shift in Lombard street west, hair down.
I suppose each kind of trade made its own, don’t you see?
Hunter with a horn.
Haw.
Have you the?
Cloche.
Sonnez la!
Shepherd his pipe.
Policeman a whistle.
Locks and keys!
Sweep!
Four o’clock’s all’s well!
Sleep!
All is lost now.
Drum?
Pompedy.
Wait, I know.
Towncrier, bumbailiff.
Long John.
Waken the dead.
Pom.
Dignam.
Poor little nominedomine.
Pom.
It is music, I mean of course it’s all pom pom pom very much what they call da capo.
Still you can hear.
As we march we march along, march along.
Pom.
I must really.
Fff.
Now if I did that at a banquet.
Just a question of custom shah of Persia.
Breathe a prayer, drop a tear.
All the same he must have been a bit of a natural not to see it was a yeoman cap.
Muffled up.
Wonder who was that chap at the grave in the brown mackin.
O, the whore of the lane!
A frowsy whore with black straw sailor hat askew came glazily in the day along the quay towards Mr Bloom.
When first he saw that form endearing.
Yes, it is.
I feel so lonely.
Wet night in the lane.
Horn.
Who had the?
Heehaw.
Shesaw.
Off her beat here.
What is she?
Hope she.
Psst!
Any chance of your wash.
Knew Molly.
Had me decked.
Stout lady does be with you in the brown costume.
Put you off your stroke.
That appointment we made.
Knowing we’d never, well hardly ever.
Too dear too near to home sweet home.
Sees me, does she?
Looks a fright in the day.
Face like dip.
Damn her!
O, well, she has to live like the rest.
Look in here.
In Lionel Marks’s antique saleshop window haughty Henry Lionel Leopold dear Henry Flower earnestly Mr Leopold Bloom envisaged candlestick melodeon oozing maggoty blowbags.
Bargain: six bob.
Might learn to play.
Cheap.
Let her pass.
Course everything is dear if you don’t want it.
That’s what good salesman is.
Make you buy what he wants to sell.
Chap sold me the Swedish razor he shaved me with.
Wanted to charge me for the edge he gave it.
She’s passing now.
Six bob.
Must be the cider or perhaps the burgund.
Near bronze from anear near gold from afar they chinked their clinking glasses all, brighteyed and gallant, before bronze Lydia’s tempting last rose of summer, rose of Castille.
First Lid, De, Cow, Ker, Doll, a fifth: Lidwell, Si Dedalus, Bob Cowley, Kernan and Big Ben Dollard.
Tap.
A youth entered a lonely Ormond hall.
Bloom viewed a gallant pictured hero in Lionel Marks’s window.
Robert Emmet’s last words.
Seven last words.
Of Meyerbeer that is.
—True men like you men.
—Ay, ay, Ben.
—Will lift your glass with us.
They lifted.
Tschink.
Tschunk.
Tip.
An unseeing stripling stood in the door.
He saw not bronze.
He saw not gold.
Nor Ben nor Bob nor Tom nor Si nor George nor tanks nor Richie nor Pat.
Hee hee hee hee.
He did not see.
Seabloom, greaseabloom viewed last words.
Softly.
When my country takes her place among.
Prrprr.
Must be the bur.
Fff.
Oo.
Rrpr.
Nations of the earth.
No-one behind.
She’s passed.
Then and not till then.
Tram.
Kran, kran, kran.
Good oppor.
Coming.
Krandlkrankran.
I’m sure it’s the burgund.
Yes.
One, two.
Let my epitaph be.
Karaaaaaaa.
Written.
I have.
Pprrpffrrppnf.
Done.
IWAS just passing the time of day with old Troy of the D. M. P. at the corner of Arbour hill there and be damned but a bloody sweep came along and he near drove his gear into my eye.
I turned around to let him have the weight of my tongue when who should I see dodging along Stony Batter only Joe Hynes.
—Lo Joe, says I.
How are you blowing?
Did you see that bloody chimneysweep near shove my eye out with his brush?
—Soot’s luck, says Joe.
Who’s the old ballocks you were talking to?
—Old Troy, says I, was in the force.
I’m on two minds not to give that fellow in charge for obstructing the thoroughfare with his brooms and ladders.
—What are you doing round those parts?
says Joe.
—Devil a much, says I.
There is a bloody big foxy thief beyond by the garrison church at the corner of Chicken Lane—old Troy was just giving me a wrinkle about him—lifted any God’s quantity of tea and sugar to pay three bob a week said he had a farm in the county Down off a hop of my thumb by the name of Moses Herzog over there near Heytesbury street.
—Circumcised!
says Joe.
—Ay, says I.
A bit off the top.
An old plumber named Geraghty.
I’m hanging on to his taw now for the past fortnight and I can’t get a penny out of him.
—That the lay you’re on now?
says Joe.
—Ay, says I.
How are the mighty fallen!
Collector of bad and doubtful debts.
But that’s the most notorious bloody robber you’d meet in a day’s walk and the face on him all pockmarks would hold a shower of rain.
Tell him, says he, I dare him, says he, and I doubledare him to send you round here again or if he does, says he, I‘ll have him summonsed up before the court, so will I, for trading without a licence.
And he after stuffing himself till he’s fit to burst!
Jesus, I had to laugh at the little jewy getting his shirt out.
He drink me my teas.
He eat me my sugars.
Because he no pay me my moneys?
For nonperishable goods bought of Moses Herzog, of 13 Saint Kevin’s parade, Wood quay ward, merchant, hereinafter called the vendor, and sold and delivered to Michael E. Geraghty, Esquire, of 29 Arbour Hill in the city of Dublin, Arran quay ward, gentleman, hereinafter called the purchaser, videlicet, five pounds avoirdupois of first choice tea at three shillings per pound avoirdupois and three stone avoirdupois of sugar, crushed crystal, at three pence per pound avoirdupois, the said purchaser debtor to the said vendor of one pound five shillings and six pence sterling for value received which amount shall be paid by said purchaser to said vendor in weekly instalments every seven calendar days of three shillings and no pence sterling: and the said nonperishable goods shall not be pawned or pledged or sold or otherwise alienated by the said purchaser but shall be and remain and be held to be the sole and exclusive property of the said vendor to be disposed of at his good will and pleasure until the said amount shall have been duly paid by the said purchaser to the said vendor in the manner herein set forth as this day hereby agreed between the said vendor his heirs, successors, trustees and assigns of the one part and the said purchaser, his heirs, successors, trustees and assigns of the other part.
—Are you a strict t. t.?
says Joe.
—Not taking anything between drinks, says I.
—What about paying our respects to our friend?
says Joe.
—Who?
says I.
Sure, he’s in John of God’s off his head, poor man.
—Drinking his own stuff?
says Joe.
—Ay, says I. Whisky and water on the brain.
—Come around to Barney Kiernan’s, says Joe.
I want to see the citizen.
—Barney mavourneen’s be it, says I.
Anything strange or wonderful, Joe?
—Not a word, says Joe.
I was up at that meeting in the City Arms.
—What was that, Joe?
says I.
—Cattle traders, says Joe, about the foot and mouth disease.
I want to give the citizen the hard word about it.
So we went around by the Linenhall barracks and the back of the courthouse talking of one thing or another.
Decent fellow Joe when he has it but sure like that he never has it.
Jesus, I couldn’t get over that bloody foxy Geraghty, the daylight robber.
For trading without a licence, says he.
In Inisfail the fair there lies a land, the land of holy Michan.
There rises a watchtower beheld of men afar.
There sleep the mighty dead as in life they slept, warriors and princes of high renown.
A pleasant land it is in sooth of murmuring waters, fishful streams where sport the gunnard, the plaice, the roach, the halibut, the gibbed haddock, lie grilse, the dab, the brill, the flounder, the mixed coarse fish generally and other denizens of the aqueous kingdom too numerous to be enumerated.
In the mild breezes of the west and of the east the lofty trees wave in different directions their first class foliage, the wafty sycamore, the Lebanonian cedar, the exalted planetree, the eugenic eucalyptus and other ornaments of the arboreal world with which that region is thoroughly well supplied.
Lovely maidens sit in close proximity to the roots of the lovely trees singing the most lovely songs while they play with all kinds of lovely objects as for example golden ingots, silvery fishes, crans of herrings, drafts of eels, codlings, creels of fingerlings, purple seagems and playful insects.
And heroes voyage from afar to woo them, from Elbana to Slievemargy, the peerless princes of unfettered Munster and of Connacht the just and of smooth sleek Leinster and of Cmachan’s land and of Armagh the splendid and of the noble district of Boyle, princes, the sons of kings.
And there rises a shining palace whose crystal glittering roof is seen by mariners who traverse the extensive sea in barks built expressly for that purpose and thither come all herds and fadings and first fruits of that land for O’Connell Fitzsimon takes toll of them, a chieftain descended from chieftains.
Thither the extremely large wains bring foison of the fields, flaskets of cauliflowers, floats of spinach, pineapple chunks, Rangoon beans, strikes of tomatoes, drums of figs, drills of Swedes, spherical potatoes and tallies of iridescent kale, York and Savoy, and trays of onions, pearls of the earth, and punnets of mushrooms and custard marrows and fat vetches and bere and rape and red green yellow brown russet sweet big bitter ripe pomellated apples and chips of strawberries and sieves of gooseberries, pulpy and pelurious, and strawberries fit for princes and raspberries from their canes.
—I dare him, says he, and I doubledare him.
Come out here, Geraghty, you notorious bloody hill and dale robber!
And by that way wend the herds innumerable of bellwethers and flushed ewes and shearling rams and lambs and stubble geese and medium steers and roaring mares and polled calves and longwools and storesheep and Cuffe’s prime springers and culls and sowpigs and baconhogs and the various different varieties of highly distinguished swine and Angus heifers and polly bullocks of immaculate pedigree together with prime premiated milchcows and beeves: and there is ever heard a trampling, cackling, roaring, lowing, bleating, bellowing, rumbling, grunting, champing, chewing, of sheep and pigs and heavyhooved kine from pasturelands of Lush and Rush and Carrickmines and from the streamy vales of Thomond, from M’Gillicuddy’s reeks the inaccessible and lordly Shannon the unfathomable, and from the gentle declivities of the place of the race of Kiar, their udders distended with superabundance of milk and butts of butter and rennets of cheese and farmer’s firkins and targets of lamb and crannocks of corn and oblong eggs, in great hundreds, various in size, the agate with the dun.
So we turned into Barney Kiernan’s and there sure enough was the citizen up in the corner having a great confab with himself and that bloody mangy mongrel, Garryowen, and he waiting for what the sky would drop in the way of drink.
—There he is, says I, in his gloryhole, with his cruiskeen lawn and his load of papers, working for the cause.
The bloody mongrel let a grouse out of him would give you the creeps.
Be a corporal work of mercy if someone would take the life of that bloody dog.
I’m told for a fact he ate a good part of the breeches off a constabulary man in Santry that came round one time with a blue paper about a licence.
—Stand and deliver, says he.
—That’s all right, citizen, says Joe.
Friends here.
—Pass, friends, says he.
Then he rubs his hand in his eye and says he:  —What’s your opinion of the times?
Doing the rapparee and Rory of the hill.
But, begob, Joe was equal to the occasion.
—I think the markets are on a rise, says he, sliding his hand down his fork.
So begob the citizen claps his paw on his knee and he says:  —Foreign wars is the cause of it.
And says Joe, sticking his thumb in his pocket:  —It’s die Russians wish to tyrannise.
—Arrah, give over your bloody codding, Joe, says I, I’ve a thirst on me I wouldn’t sell for half a crown.
—Give it a name, citizen, says Joe.
—Wine of the country, says he.
—What’s yours?
says Joe.
—Ditto MacAnaspey, says I.
—Three pints, Terry, says Joe.
And how’s the old heart, citizen?
says he.
—Never better, a chara, says he.
What Garry?
Are we going to win?
Eh?
And with that he took the bloody old towser by the scruff of the neck and, by Jesus, he near throttled him.
The figure seated on a large boulder at the foot of a round tower was that of a broadshouldered deepchested stronglimbed frankeyed redhaired freely freckled shaggy-bearded widemouthed largenosed longheaded deepvoiced barekneedbrawnyhandedhairyleggedruddyfaced sinewy-armed hero.
From shoulder to shoulder he measured several ells and his rocklike mountainous knees were covered, as was likewise the rest of his body wherever visible, with a strong growth of tawny prickly hair in hue and toughness similar to the mountain gorse (Ulex Europeus).
The widewinged nostrils, from which bristles of the same tawny hue projected, were of such capaciousness that within their cavernous obscurity the fieldlark might easily have lodged her nest.
The eyes in which a tear and a smile strove ever for the mastery were of the dimensions of a goodsized cauliflower.
A powerful current of warm breath issued at regular intervals from the profound cavity of his mouth while in rhythmic resonance the loud strong hale reverberations of his formidable heart thundered rumblingly causing the ground, the summit of the lofty tower and the still loftier walls of the cave to vibrate and tremble.
He wore a long unsleeved garment of recently flayed oxhide reaching to the knees in a loose kilt and this was bound about his middle by a girdle of plaited straw and rushes.
Beneath this he wore trews of deerskin, roughly stitched with gut.
His nether extremities were encased in high Balbriggan buskins dyed in lichen purple, the feet being shod with brogues of salted cowhide laced with the windpipe of the same beast.
From his girdle hung a row of seastones which dangled at every movement of his portentous frame and on these were graven with rude yet striking art the tribal images of many Irish heroes and heroines of antiquity, Cuchulin, Conn of hundred battles, Niall of nine hostages, Brian of Kincora, the Ardri Malachi, Art MacMurragh, Shane O’Neill, Father John Murphy, Owen Roe, Patrick Sarsfield, Red Hugh O’Donnell, Red Jim MacDermott, Soggarth Eoghan O’Growney, Michael Dwyer, Francy Higgins, Henry Joy M’Cracken, Goliath, Horace Wheatley, Thomas Conneff, Peg Woffington, the Village Blacksmith, Captain Moonlight, Captain Boycott, Dante Alighieri, Christopher Columbus, S. Fursa, S. Brendan, Marshal MacMahon, Charlemagne, Theobald Wolfe Tone, the Mother of the Maccabees, the Last of the Mohicans, the Rose of Castille, the Man for Galway, The Man that Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo, The Man in the Gap, The Woman Who Didn’t, Benjamin Franklin, Napoleon Bonaparte, John L. Sullivan, Cleopatra, Savourneen Deelish, Julius Caesar, Paracelsus, sir Thomas Lipton, William Tell, Michelangelo, Hayes, Muhammad, the Bride of Lammermoor, Peter the Hermit, Peter the Packer, Dark Rosaleen, Patrick W. Shakespeare, Brian Confucius, Murtagh Gutenberg, Patricio Velasquez, Captain Nemo, Tristan and Isolde, the first Prince of Wales, Thomas Cook and Son, the Bold Soldier Boy, Arrah na Pogue, Dick Turpin, Ludwig Beethoven, the Colleen Bawn, Waddler Healy, Angus the Culdee, Dolly Mount, Sidney Parade, Ben Howth, Valentine Greatrakes, Adam and Eve, Arthur Wellesley, Boss Croker, Herodotus, Jack the Giant-killer, Gautama Buddha, Lady Godiva, The Lily of Killarney, Balor of the Evil Eye, the Queen of Sheba, Acky Nagle, Joe Nagle, Alessandro Volta, Jeremiah O’Donovan Rossa, Don Philip O’Sullivan Beare.
A couched spear of acuminated granite rested by him while at his feet reposed a savage animal of the canine tribe whose stertorous gasps announced that he was sunk in uneasy slumber, a supposition confirmed by hoarse growls and spasmodic movements which his master repressed from time to time by tranquillising blows of a mighty cudgel rudely fashioned out of paleolithic stone.
So anyhow Terry brought the three pints Joe was standing and begob the sight nearly left my eyes when I saw him land out a quid.
O, as true as I’m telling you.
A goodlooking sovereign.
—And there’s more where that came from, says he.
—Were you robbing the poorbox, Joe?
says I.
—Sweat of my brow, says Joe.
‘Twas die prudent member gave me the wheeze.
—I saw him before I met you, says I, sloping around by Fill lane and Greek street with his cod’s eye counting up all the guts of the fish.
Who comes through Michan’s land, bedight in sable armour?
O’Bloom, the son of Rory: it is he.
Impervious to fear is Rory’s son: he of the prudent soul.
—For the old woman of Prince’s street, says the citizen, the subsidised organ.
The pledgebound party on the floor of the house.
And look at this blasted rag, says he.
Look at this, says he.
The Irish Independent, if you please, founded by Parnell to be the workingman’s friend.
Listen to the births and deaths in the Irish all for Ireland Independent and I’ll thank you and the marriages.
And he starts reading them out:  —Gordon, Barnfield Crescent, Exeter; Redmayne of Iffley, Saint Anne’s on Sea, the wife of William T. Redmayne, of a son.
How’s that, eh?
Wright and Flint, Vincent and Gillett to Rotha Marion daughter of Rosa and the late George Alfred Gillett, 179 Clapham Road, Stockwell, Playwood and Ridsdale at Saint Jude’s Kensington by the very reverend Dr Forrest, Dean of Worcester, eh?
Deaths.
Bristow, at Whitehall lane, London: Carr, Stoke Newington, of gastritis and heart disease: Cockburn, at the Moat house, Chepstow…  —I know that fellow, says Joe, from bitter experience.
—Cockburn.
Dimsey, wife of Davie Dimsey, late of the admiralty: Miller, Tottenham, aged eightyfive: Welsh, June 12, at 35 Canning Street, Liverpool, Isabella Helen.
How’s that for a national press, eh, my brown son?
How’s that for Martin Murphy, the Bantry jobber?
—Ah, well, says Joe, handing round the boose.
Thanks be to God they had the start of us.
Drink that, citizen.
—I will, says he, honourable person.
—Health, Joe, says I.
And all down the form.
Ah!
Ow!
Don’t be talking!
I was blue mouldy for the want of that pint.
Declare to God I could hear it hit the pit of my stomach with a click.
And lo, as they quaffed their cup of joy, a godlike messenger came swiftly in, radiant as the eye of heaven, a comely youth, and behind him there passed an elder of noble gait and countenance, bearing the sacred scrolls of law, and with him his lady wife, a dame of peerless lineage, fairest of her race.
Little Alf Bergan popped in round the door and hid behind Barney’s snug, squeezed up with the laughing, and who was sitting up there in the corner that I hadn’t seen snoring drunk, blind to the world, only Bob Doran.
I didn’t know what was up and Alf kept making signs out of the door.
And begob what was it only that bloody old pantaloon Denis Breen in his bath slippers with two bloody big books tucked under his oxter and the wife hotfoot after him, unfortunate wretched woman trotting like a poodle.
I thought Alf would split.
—Look at him, says he.
Breen.
He’s traipsing all round Dublin with a postcard someone sent him with u. p.: up on it to take a li…  And he doubled up.
—Take a what?
says I.
—Libel action, says he, for ten thousand pounds.
—O hell!
says I.
The bloody mongrel began to growl that’d put the fear of God in you seeing something was up but the citizen gave him a kick in the ribs.
—Bi i dho husht, says he.
—Who?
says Joe.
—Breen, says Alf.
He was in John Henry Menton’s and then he went round to Collis and Ward’s and then Tom Rochford met him and sent him round to the subsheriff’s for a lark.
O God, I’ve a pain laughing.
U. p.: up.
The long fellow gave him an eye as good as a process and now the bloody old lunatic is gone round to Green Street to look for a G. man.
—When is long John going to hang that fellow in Mountjoy?
says Joe.
—Bergan, says Bob Doran, waking up.
Is that Alf Bergan?
—Yes, says Alf.
Hanging?
Wait till I show you.
Here, Terry, give us a pony.
That bloody old fool!
Ten thousand pounds.
You should have seen long John’s eye.
