No other in sight.
—You’re in black I see.
You have no…  —No, Mr Bloom said.
I have just come from a funeral.
Going to crop up all day, I foresee.
Who’s dead, when and what did he die of?
Turn up like a bad penny.
—O dear me, Mrs Breen said, I hope it wasn’t any near relation.
May as well get her sympathy.
—Dignam, Mr Bloom said.
An old friend of mine.
He died quite suddenly, poor fellow.
Heart trouble, I believe.
Funeral was this morning.
Your funeral’s tomorrow  While you’re coming through the rye.
Diddlediddle dumdum  Diddlediddle…    —Sad to lose the old friends, Mrs Breen’s womaneyes said melancholily.
Now that’s quite enough about that.
Just quietly: husband.
—And your lord and master?
Mrs Breen turned up her two large eyes.
Hasn’t lost them anyhow.
—O, don’t be talking, she said.
He’s a caution to rattlesnakes.
He’s in there now with his lawbooks finding out the law of libel.
He has me heartscalded.
Wait till I show you.
Hot mockturtle vapour and steam of newbaked jam- puffs rolypoly poured out from Harrison’s.
The heavy noonreek tickled the top of Mr Bloom’s gullet.
Want to make good pastry, butter, best flour, Demerara sugar, or they’d taste it with the hot tea.
Or is it from her?
A barefoot arab stood over the grating, breathing in the fumes.
Deaden the gnaw of hunger that way.
Pleasure or pain is it?
Penny dinner.
Knife and fork chained to the table.
Opening her handbag, chipped leather, hatpin: ought to have a guard on those things.
Stick it in a chap’s eye in the tram.
Rummaging.
Open.
Money.
Please take one.
Devils if they lose sixpence.
Raise Cain.
Husband barging.
Where’s the ten shillings I gave you on Monday?
Are you feeding your little brother’s family?
Soiled handkerchief: medicinebottle.
Pastille that was fell.
What is she?…  —There must be a new moon out, she said.
He’s always bad then.
Do you know what he did last night?
Her hand ceased to rummage.
Her eyes fixed them- selves on him wide in alarm, yet smiling.
—What?
Mr Bloom asked.
Let her speak.
Look straight in her eyes.
I believe you.
Trust me.
—Woke me up in the night, she said.
Dream he had, a nightmare.
Indiges.
—Said the ace of spades was walking up the stairs.
—The ace of spades!
Mr Bloom said.
She took a folded postcard from her handbag.
—Read that, she said.
He got it this morning.
—What is it?
Mr Bloom asked, taking the card.
U. P.?
—U.
P.: up, she said.
Someone taking a rise out of him.
It’s a great shame for them whoever he is.
—Indeed it is, Mr Bloom said.
She took back the card, sighing.
—And now he’s going round to Mr Menton’s office.
He’s going to take an action for ten thousand pounds, he says.
She folded the card into her untidy bag and snapped the catch.
Same blue serge dress she had two years ago, the nap bleaching.
Seen its best days.
Wispish hair over her ears.
And that dowdy toque, three old grapes to take the harm out of it.
Shabby genteel.
She used to be a tasty dresser.
Lines round her mouth.
Only a year or so older than Molly.
See the eye that woman gave her, passing.
Cruel.
The unfair sex.
He looked still at her, holding back behind his look his discontent.
Pungent mockturtle oxtail mulligatawny.
I’m hungry too.
Flakes of pastry on the gusset of her dress: daub of sugary flour stuck to her cheek.
Rhubarb tart with liberal finings, rich fruit interior.
Josie Powell that was.
In Luke Doyle’s long ago, Dolphin’s Barn, the charades.
U. P.: up.
Change the subject.
—Do you ever see anything of Mrs Beaufoy, Mr Bloom asked.
—Mina Purefoy?
she said.
Philip Beaufoy I was thinking.
Playgoers’ club.
Matcham often thinks of the masterstroke.
Did I pull the chain?
Yes.
The last act.
—Yes.
—I just called to ask on the way in is she over it.
She’s in the lying-in hospital in Holies street.
Dr Home got her in.
She’s three days bad now.
—O, Mr Bloom said.
I’m sorry to hear that.
—Yes, Mrs Breen said.
And a houseful of kids at home.
It’s a very stiff birth, the nurse told me.
—O, Mr Bloom said.
His heavy pitying gaze absorbed her news.
His tongue clacked in compassion.
Dth!
Dth!
—I’m sorry to hear that, he said.
Poor thing!
Three days I That’s terrible for her.
Mrs Breen nodded.
—She was taken bad on the Tuesday .
.
Mr Bloom touched her funnybone gently, warning her.
—Mind!
Let this man pass.
A bony form strode along the curbstone from the river, staring with a rapt gaze into the sunlight through a heavy stringed glass.
Tight as a skullpiece a tiny hat gripped his head.
From his arm a folded dustcoat, a stick and an umbrella dangled to his stride.
—Watch him, Mr Bloom said.
He always walks out- side the lampposts.
Watch!
—Who is he if it’s a fair question, Mrs Breen asked.
Is he dotty?
—His name is Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, Mr Bloom said, smiling.
Watch!
—He has enough of them, she said.
Denis will be like that one of these days.
She broke off suddenly.
—There he is, she said.
I must go after him.
Goodbye.
Remember me to Molly, won’t you?
—I will, Mr Bloom said.
He watched her dodge through passers towards the shopfronts.
Denis Breen in skimpy frockcoat and blue canvas shoes shuffled out of Harrison’s hugging two heavy tomes to his ribs.
Blown in from the bay.
Like old times.
He suffered her to overtake him without surprise and thrust his dull grey beard towards her, his loose jaw wagging as he spoke earnestly.
Meshuggah.
Off his chump.
Mr Bloom walked on again easily, seeing ahead of him in sunlight the tight skullpiece, the dangling stick, umbrella, dustcoat.
Going die two days.
Watch him!
Out he goes again.
One way of getting on in the world.
And that other old mosey lunatic in those duds.
Hard time she must have with him.
U. P.: up.
I’ll take my oath that’s Alf Bergan or Richie Goulding.
Wrote it for a lark in the Scotch house, I bet anything.
Round to Menton’s office.
His oyster eyes staring at the postcard.
Be a feast for the gods.
He passed the Irish Times.
There might be other answers lying there.
Like to answer them all.
Good system for criminals.
Code.
At their lunch now.
Clerk with the glasses there doesn’t know me.
O, leave them there to simmer.
Enough bother wading through forty- four of them.
Wanted smart lady typist to aid gentleman in literary work.
I called you naughty darling because I do not like that other world.
Please tell me what is the meaning.
Please tell me what perfume does your wife.
Tell me who made the world.
The way they spring those questions on you.
And the other one Lizzie Twigg.
My literary efforts have had the good fortune to meet with the approval of the eminent poet A. E. (Mr Geo Russell).
No time to do her hair drinking sloppy tea with a book of poetry.
Best paper by long chalks for a small ad.
Got the provinces now.
Cook and general, exc cuisine, house- maid kept.
Wanted live man for spirit counter.
Resp girl ( R. C.) wishes to hear of post in fruit or pork shop.
James Carlisle made that.
Six and a half percent dividend.
Made a big deal on Coates’s shares.
Ca’canny.
Cunning old Scotch hunks.
All the toady news.
Our gracious and popular vicereine.
Bought the Irish Field now.
Lady Mountcashel has quite recovered after her con- finement and rode out with the Ward Union staghounds at the enlargement yesterday at Rathoath.
Uneatable fox.
Pothunters too.
Fear injects juices make it tender enough for them.
Riding astride.
Sit her horse like a man.
Weightcarrying huntress.
No sidesaddle or pillion for her, not for Joe.
First to the meet and in at the death.
Strong as a brood mare some of those horsey women.
Swagger around livery stables.
Toss off a glass of brandy neat while you’d say knife.
That one at the Grosvenor this morning.
Up with her on the car: wish- wish.
Stonewall or fivebarred gate put her mount to it.
Think that pugnosed driver did it out of spite.
Who is this she was like?
O yes?
Mrs Miriam Dandrade that sold me her old wraps and black underclothes in the Shelbourne hotel.
Divorced Spanish American.
Didn’t take a feather out of her my handling them.
As if I was her dotheshorse.
Saw her in the viceregal party when Stubbs the park ranger got me in with Whelan of the Express.
Scavenging what the quality left.
High tea.
Mayonnaise I poured on the plums thinking it was custard.
Her ears ought to have tingled for a few weeks after.
Want to be a bull for her.
Born courtesan.
No nursery work for her, thanks.
Poor Mrs Purefoy!
Methodist husband.
Method in his madness.
Saffron bun and milk and soda lunch in the educational dairy.
Eating with a stopwatch, thirtytwo chews to the minute.
Still his muttonchop whiskers grew.
Supposed to be well connected.
Theodore’s cousin in Dublin Castle.
One tony relative in every family.
Hardy annuals he presents her with.
Saw him out at the Three Jolly Topers marching along bareheaded and his eldest boy carrying one in a marketnet.
The squallers.
Poor thing!
Then having to give the breast year after year all hours of the night.
Selfish those t.t’s are.
Dog in the manger.
Only one lump of sugar in my tea, if you please.
He stood at Fleet street crossing.
Luncheon interval a sixpenny at Rowe’s?
Must look up that ad in the national library.
An eightpenny in the Burton.
Better.
On my way.
He walked on past Bolton’s Westmoreland house.
Tea.
Tea.
Tea.
I forgot to tap Tom Kernan.
Sss.
Dth, dth, dth!
Three days imagine groaning on a bed with a vinegared handkerchief round her forehead, her belly swollen out!
Phew!
Dreadful simply!
Child’s head too big: forceps.
Doubled up inside her trying to butt its way out blindly, groping for the way out.
Kill me that would.
Lucky Molly got over hers lightly.
They ought to invent something to stop that.
Life with hard labour.
Twilightsleep idea: queen Victoria was given that.
Nine she had.
A good layer.
Old woman that lived in a shoe she had so many children.
Suppose he was consumptive.
Time someone thought about it instead of gassing about the what was it the pensive bosom of the silver effulgence.
Flapdoodle to feed fools on.
They could easily have big establishments.
Whole thing quite painless out of all the taxes give every child born five quid at compound interest up to twentyone, five per cent is a hundred shillings and five tiresome pounds, multiply by twenty decimal system, encourage people to put by money save hundred and ten and a bit twentyone years want to work it out on paper come to a tidy sum, more than you think.
Not stillborn of course.
They are not even registered.
Trouble for nothing.
Funny sight two of them together, their bellies out.
Molly and Mrs Moisel.
Mothers’ meeting.
Phthisis retires for the time being, then returns.
How flat they look after all of a sudden!
Peaceful eyes.
Weight off their minds.
Old Mrs Thornton was a jolly old soul.
All my babies, she said.
The spoon of pap in her mouth before she fed them.
O, that’s nyumyum.
Got her hand crushed by old Tom Wall’s son.
His first bow to the public.
Head like a prize pumpkin.
Snuffy Dr Murren.
People knocking them up at all hours.
For God’sake doctor.
Wife in her throes.
Then keep them waiting months for their fee.
To attendance on your wife.
No gratitude in people.
Humane doctors, most of them.
Before the huge high door of the Irish house of parlia- ment a flock of pigeons flew.
Their little frolic after meals.
Who will we do it on?
I pick the fellow in black.
Here goes.
Here’s good luck.
Must be thrilling from the air.
Apjohn, myself and Owen Goldberg up in the trees near Goose green playing the monkeys.
Mackerel they called me.
A squad of constables debouched from College street, marching in Indian file.
Goose step.
Foodheated faces, sweating helmets, patting their truncheons.
After their feed with a good load of fat soup under their belts.
Policeman’s lot is oft a happy one.
They split up into groups and scattered, saluting towards their beats.
Let out to graze.
Best moment to attack one in pudding time.
A punch in his dinner.
A squad of others, marching irregularly, rounded Trinity railings, making for the station.
Bound for their troughs.
Prepare to receive cavalry.
Prepare to receive soup.
He crossed under Tommy Moore’s roguish finger.
They did right to put him up over a urinal: meeting of the waters.
Ought to be places for women.
Running into cakeshops.
Settle my hat straight.
There is not in this wide world a vallee.
Great song of Julia Morkan’s.Kept her voice up to the very last.
Pupil of Michael Bafie’s wasn’t she?
He gazed after the last broad tunic.
Nasty customers to tackle.
Jack Power could a tale unfold: father a G man.
If a fellow gave them trouble being lagged they let him have it hot and heavy in the bridewell.
Can’t blame them after all with the job they have especially the young hornies.
That horse policeman the day Joe Chamberlain was given his degree in Trinity he got a run for his money.
My word he did!
His horse’s hoofs clattering after us down Abbey street.
Luck I had the presence of mind to dive into Manning’s or I was souped.
He did come a wallop, by George.
Must have cracked his skull on the cobblestones.
I oughtn’t to have got myself swept along with those medicals.
And the Trinity jibs in their mortarboards.
Looking for trouble.
Still I got to know that young Dixon who dressed that sting for me in the Mater and now he’s in Holies street where Mrs Purefoy.
Wheels within wheels.
Police whistle in my ears still.
All skedaddled.
Why he fixed on me.
Give me in charge.
Right here it began.
—Up the Boers!
—Three cheers for De Wet!
—We’ll hang Joe Chamberlain on a sourapple tree.
Silly billies: mob of young cubs yelling their guts out.
Vinegar hill.
The Butter exchange band.
Few years’ time half of them magistrates and civil servants.
War comes on: into the army helterskelter: same fellows used to whether on the scaffold high.
Never know who you’re talking to.
Corny Kelleher he has Harvey Duff in his eye.
Like that Peter or Denis or James Carey that blew the gaff on the invincibles.
Member of the corporation too.
Egging raw youths on to get in the know.
All the time drawing secret service pay from the castle.
Drop him like a hot potato.
Why those plain clothes men are always courting slaveys.
Easily twig a man used to uniform.
Squarepushing up against a backdoor.
Maul her a bit.
Then the next thing on the menu.
And who is the gentleman does be visiting there?
Was the young master saying anything?
Peeping Tom through the keyhole.
Decoy duck.
Hotblooded young student fooling round her fat arms ironing.
—Are those yours, Mary?
—I don’t wear such things…Stop or I’ll tell the missus on you.
Out half the night.
—There are great times coming, Mary.
Wait till you see.
—Ah, get along with your great times coming.
Barmaids too.
Tobacco shopgirls.
James Stephens’ idea was the best.
He knew them.
Circles of ten so that a fellow couldn’t round on more than his own ring.
Sinn Fein.
Back out you get the knife.
Hidden hand.
Stay in, the firing squad.
Turnkey’s daughter got him out of Richmond, off from Lusk.
Putting up in the Buckingham Palace hotel under their very noses.
Garibaldi.
You must have a certain fascination: Parnell.
