Eaten by birds.
Earth, fire, water.
Drowning they say is the pleasantest.
See your whole life in a flash.
But being brought back to life no.
Can’t bury in the air however.
Out of a flying machine.
Wonder does the news go about whenever a fresh one is let down.
Underground communication.
We learned that from them.
Wouldn’t be surprised.
Regular square feed for them.
Flies come before he’s well dead.
Got wind of Dignam.
They wouldn’t care about the smell of it.
Saltwhite crumbling mush of corpse: smell, taste like raw white turnips.
The gates glimmered in front: still open.
Back to the world again.
Enough of this place.
Brings you a bit nearer every time.
Last time I was here was Mrs Sinico’s funeral.
Poor papa too.
The love that kills.
And even scraping up the earth at night with a lantern like that case I read of to get at fresh buried females or even putrefied with running gravesores.
Give you the creeps after a bit.
I will appear to you after death.
You will see my ghost after death.
My ghost will haunt you after death.
There is another world after death named hell.
I do not like that other world she wrote.
No more do I.
Plenty to see and hear and feel yet.
Feel live warm beings near you.
Let them sleep in their maggoty beds.
They are not going to get me this innings.
Warm beds: warm fullblooded life.
Martin Cunningham emerged from a sidepath, talking gravely.
Solicitor, I think.
I know his face.
Menton.
John Henry, solicitor, commissioner for oaths and affidavits.
Dignam used to be in his office.
Mat Dillon’s long ago.
Jolly Mat convivial evenings.
Cold fowl, cigars, the Tantalus glasses.
Heart of gold really.
Yes, Menton.
Got his rag out that evening on the bowling green because I sailed inside him.
Pure fluke of mine: the bias.
Why he took such a rooted dislike to me.
Hate at first sight.
Molly and Floey Dillon linked under the lilactree, laughing.
Fellow always like that, mortified if women are by.
Got a dinge in the side of his hat.
Carriage probably.
—Excuse me, sir, Mr Bloom said beside them.
They stopped.
—Your hat is a little crushed, Mr Bloom said, pointing.
John Henry Menton stared at him for an instant without moving.
—There, Martin Cunningham helped, pointing also.
John Henry Menton took off his hat, bulged out the dinge and smoothed the nap with care on his coatsleeve.
He clapped the hat on his head again.
—It’s all right now, Martin Cunningham said.
John Henry Menton jerked his head down in acknowledgment.
—Thank you, he said shortly.
They walked on towards the gates.
Mr Bloom, chapfallen, drew behind a few paces so as not to overhear.
Martin laying down the law.
Martin could wind a sappyhead like that round his little finger without his seeing it.
Oyster eyes.
Never mind.
Be sorry after perhaps when it dawns on him.
Get the pull over him that way.
Thank you.
How grand we are this morning.
IN THE HEART OF THE HIBERNIAN METROPOLIS   BEFORE Nelson’s pillar trams slowed, shunted, changed trolley, started for Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Clonskea, Rathgar and Terenure, Palmerston park and upper Rathmines, Sandymount Green, Rathmines, Ringsend and Sandymount Tower, Harold’s Cross.
The hoarse Dublin United Tramway Company’s timekeeper bawled them off:  —Rathgar and Terenure!
—Come on, Sandymount Green!
Right and left parallel clanging ringing a double-decker and a singledeck moved from their railheads, swerved to the down line, glided parallel.
—Start, Palmerston park!
THE WEARER OF THE CROWN   Under the porch of the general post office shoeblacks called and polished.
Parked in North Prince’s street His Majesty’s vermilion mailcars, bearing on their sides the royal initials, E. R., received loudly flung sacks of letters, postcards, lettercards, parcels, insured and paid, for local, provincial, British and overseas delivery.
GENTLEMEN OF THE PRESS   Grossbooted draymen rolled barrels dullthudding out of Prince’s stores and bumped them up on the brewery float.
On the brewery float bumped dullthudding barrels rolled by grossbooted draymen out of Prince’s stores.
—There it is, Red Murray said.
Alexander Keyes.
—Just cut it out, will you?
Mr Bloom said, and I’ll take it round to the Telegraph office.
The door of Ruttledge’s office creaked again.
Davy Stephens, minute in a large capecoat, a small felt hat crowning his ringlets, passed out with a roll of papers under his cape, a king’s courier.
Red Murray’s long shears sliced out the advertisement from the newspaper in four clean strokes.
Scissors and paste.
—I’ll go through the printing works, Mr Bloom said, taking the cut square.
—Of course, if he wants a par, Red Murray said earnestly, a pen behind his ear, we can do him one.
—Right, Mr Bloom said with a nod.
I’ll rub that in.
We.
WILLIAM BRAYDEN, ESQUIRE, OF OAKLANDS, SANDYMOUNT   Red Murray touched Mr Bloom’s arm with the shears and whispered:    —Brayden.
Mr Bloom turned and saw the liveried porter raise his lettered cap as a stately figure entered between the newsboards of the Weekly Freeman and National Press and the Freeman’s Journal and National Press.
Dull-thudding Guinness’s barrels.
It passed stately up the staircase steered by an umbrella, a solemn beardframed face.
The broadcloth back ascended each step: back.
All his brains are in the nape of his neck, Simon Dedalus says.
Welts of flesh behind on him.
Fat folds of neck, fat, neck, fat, neck.
—Don’t you think his face is like Our Saviour?
Red Murray whispered.
The door of Ruttledge’s office whispered: ee: cree.
They always build one door opposite another for the wind to.
Way in.
Way out.
Our Saviour: beardframed oval face: talking in the dusk Mary, Martha.
Steered by an umbrella sword to the footlights: Mario the tenor.
—Or like Mario, Mr Bloom said.
—Yes, Red Murray agreed.
But Mario was said to be the picture of Our Saviour.
Jesus Mario with rougy cheeks, doublet and spindle legs.
Hand on his heart.
In Martha.
Co-ome thou lost one,  Co-ome thou dear one.
THE CROZIER AND THE FEN   —His grace phoned down twice this morning, Red Murray said gravely.
They watched the knees, legs, boots vanish.
Neck.
A telegram boy stepped in nimbly, threw an envelope on the counter and stepped off posthaste with a word.
—Freeman !
Mr Bloom said slowly:  —Well, he is one of our saviours also.
A meek smile accompanied him as he lifted the counterflap, as he passed in through the sidedoor and along the warm dark stairs and passage, along the now reverberating boards.
But will he save the circulation?
Thumping, thumping.
He pushed in the glass swingdoor and entered, stepping over strewn packing paper.
Through a lane of clanking drums he made his way towards Nannetti’s reading closet.
WITH UNFEIGNED REGRET IT IS WE   ANNOUNCE THE DISSOLUTION OF A MOST RESPECTED   DUBLIN BURGESS   Hynes here too: account of the funeral probably.
Thumping thump.
This morning the remains of the late Mr Patrick Dignam.
Machines.
Smash a man to atoms if they got him caught.
Rule the world today.
His machineries are pegging away too.
Like these, got out of hand: fermenting.
Working away, tearing away.
And that old grey rat tearing to get in.
HOW A GREAT DAILY ORGAN IS TURNED OUT   Mr Bloom halted behind the foreman’s spare body, admiring a glossy crown.
Strange he never saw his real country.
Ireland my country.
Member for College green.
He boomed that workaday worker tack for all it was worth.
It’s the ads and side features sell a weekly not the stale news in the official gazette.
Queen Anne is dead.
Published by authority in the year one thousand and.
Demesne situate in the townland of Rosenallis, barony of Tinnachinch.
To all whom it may concern schedule pursuant to statute showing return of number of mules and jennets exported from Ballina.
Nature notes.
Cartoons.
Phil Blake’s weekly Pat and Bull story.
Uncle Toby’s page for tiny tots.
Country bumpkin’s queries.
Dear Mr Editor, what is a good cure for flatulence?
I’d like that part.
Learn a lot teaching others.
The personal note M. A. P. Mainly all pictures.
Shapely bathers on golden strand.
World’s biggest balloon.
Double marriage of sisters celebrated.
Two bridegrooms laughing heartily at each other.
Cuprani too, printer.
More Irish than the Irish.
The machines clanked in threefour time.
Thump, thump, thump.
Now if he got paralysed there and no one knew how to stop them they’d clank on and on the same, print it over and over and up and back.
Monkeydoodle the whole thing.
Want a cool head.
—Well, get it into the evening edition, councillor, Hynes said.
Soon be calling him my lord mayor.
Long John is backing him they say.
The foreman, without answering, scribbled press on a corner of the sheet and made a sign to a typesetter.
He handed the sheet silently over the ditty glass screen.
—Right: thanks, Hynes said moving off.
Mr Bloom stood in his way.
—If you want to draw the cashier is just going to lunch, he said, pointing backward with his thumb.
—Did you?
Hynes asked.
—Mm, Mr Bloom said.
Look sharp and you’ll catch him.
—Thanks, old man, Hynes said.
I’ll tap him too.
He hurried on eagerly towards the Freeman’s Journal.
Three bob I lent him in Meagher’s.
Three weeks.
Third hint.
WE SEE THE CANVASSER AT WORK   Mr Bloom laid his cutting on Mr Nannetti’s desk.
—Excuse me, councillor, he said.
This ad, you see.
Keyes, you remember.
Mr Nannetti considered the cutting a while and nodded.
—He wants it in for July, Mr Bloom said.
He doesn’t hear it.
Nannan.
Iron nerves.
The foreman moved his pencil towards it.
—But wait, Mr Bloom said.
He wants it changed.
Keyes, you see.
He wants two keys at the top.
Hell of a racket they make.
Maybe he understands what I.
The foreman turned round to hear patiently and, lifting an elbow, began to scratch slowly in the armpit of his alpaca jacket.
—Like that, Mr Bloom said, crossing his forefingers at the top.
Let him take that in first.
Mr Bloom, glancing sideways up from the cross he had made, saw the foreman’s sallow face, think he has a touch of jaundice, and beyond the obedient reels feeding in huge webs of paper.
Clank it.
Clank it.
Miles of it unreeled.
What becomes of it after?
O, wrap up meat, parcels: various uses, thousand and one things.
Slipping his words deftly into the pauses of the clanking he drew swiftly on the scarred-woodwork.
HOUSE OF KEY(E)S   —Like that, see.
Two crossed keys here.
A circle.
Then here the name Alexander Keyes, tea, wine and spirit merchant.
So on.
Better not teach him his own business.
—You know yourself, councillor, just what he wants.
Then round the top in leaded: the house of keys.
You see?
Do you think that’s a good idea?
The foreman moved his scratching hand to his lower ribs and scratched there quietly.
—The idea, Mr Bloom said, is the house of keys.
You know, councillor, the Manx parliament.
Innuendo of home rule.
Tourists, you know, from the isle of Man.
Catches the eye, you see.
Can you do that?
I could ask him perhaps about how to pronounce that voglio.
But then if he didn’t know only make it awkward for him.
Better not.
—We can do that, the foreman said.
Have you the design?
—I can get it, Mr Bloom said.
It was in a Kilkenny paper.
He has a house there too.
I’ll just run out and ask him.
Well, you can do that and just a little par calling attention.
You know the usual.
High class licensed premises.
Longfelt want.
So on.
The foreman thought for an instant.
—We can do that, he said.
Let him give us a three months’ renewal.
A typesetter brought him a limp galleypage.
He began to check it silently.
Mr Bloom stood by, hearing the loud throbs of cranks, watching the silent typesetters at their cases.
ORTHOGRAPHICAL   Want to be sure of his spelling.
Proof fever.
Martin Cunningham forgot to give us his spellingbee conundrum this morning.
It is amusing to view the unpar one ar alleled embarra two ars is it?
double ess ment of a harassed pedlar while gauging au the symmetry of a peeled pear under a cemetery wall.
Silly, isn’t it?
Cemetery put in of course on account of the symmetry.
I could have said when he clapped on his topper.
Thank you.
I ought to have said something about an old hat or something.
No, I could have said.
Looks as good as new now.
See his phiz then.
Sllt.
The nethermost deck of the first machine jogged forwards its flyboard with silt the first batch of quire-folded papers.
Silt.
Almost human the way it silt to call attention.
Doing its level best to speak.
That door too silt creaking, asking to be shut.
Everything speaks in its own way.
Sllt.
NOTED CHURCHMAN AN OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTOR   The foreman handed back the galleypage suddenly, saying:  —Wait.
Where’s the archbishop’s letter?
It’s to be repeated in the Telegraph.
Where’s what’s his name?
He looked about him round his loud unanswering machines.
—Monks, sir?
a voice asked from the castingbox.
—Ay.
Where’s Monks?
—Monks!
Mr Bloom took up his cutting.
Time to get out.
—Then I’ll get the design, Mr Nannetti, he said, and you’ll give it a good place I know.
—Monks!
—Yes, sir.
Three months’ renewal.
Want to get some wind off my chest first.
Try it anyhow.
Rub in August: good idea: horseshow month.
Ballsbridge.
Tourists over for the show.
A DAYFATHER   He walked on through the caseroom, passing an old man, bowed, spectacled, aproned.
Old Monks, the day-father.
Queer lot of stuff he must have put through his hands in his time: obituary notices, pubs’ ads, speeches, divorce suits, found drowned.
Nearing the end of his tether now.
Sober serious man with a bit in the savings-bank I’d say.
Wife a good cook and washer.
Daughter working the machine in the parlour.
Plain Jane, no damn nonsense.
AND IT WAS THE FEAST OF THE PASSOVER   He stayed in his walk to watch a typesetter neatly distributing type.
Reads it backwards first.
Quickly he does it.
Must require some practice that.
mangiD.
kcirtaP.
Poor papa with his hagadah book, reading backwards with his finger to me.
Pessach.
Next year in Jerusalem.
Dear, O dear!
All that long business about that brought us out of the land of Egypt and into the house of bondage alleluia.
Shema Israel Adonai Elohenu.
No, that’s the other.
Then the twelve brothers, Jacob’s sons.
And then the lamb and the cat and the dog and the stick and the water and the butcher and then the angel of death kills the butcher and he kills the ox and the dog kills the cat.
Sounds a bit silly till you come to look into it well.
Justice it means but it’s everybody eating everyone else.
That’s what life is after all.
How quickly he does that job.
Practice makes perfect.
Seems to see with his fingers.
Mr Bloom passed on out of the clanking noises through the gallery on to the landing.
Now am I going to tram it out all the way and then catch him out perhaps?
Belter phone him up first.
Number?
Same as Gtron’s house.
Twentyeight.
Twentyeight double four.
ONLY ONCE MORE THAT SOAP   He went down the house staircase.
Who the deuce scrawled all over these walls with matches?
Looks as if they did it for a bet.
Heavy greasy smell there always is in those works.
Lukewarm glue in Thorn’s next door when I was there.
He took out his handkerchief to dab his nose.
Citron-lemon?
Ah, the soap I put there.
Lose it out of that pocket.
Putting back his handkerchief he took out the soap and stowed it away, buttoned into the hip pocket of his trousers.
What perfume does your wife use?
I could go home still: tram: something I forgot.
Just to see before dressing.
No.
Here.
No.
A sudden screech of laughter came from the Evening Telegraph office.
Know who that is.
What’s up?
Pop in a minute to phone.
Ned Lambert it is.
He entered softly.
ERIN, GREEN GEM OF THE SILVER SEA   —The ghost walks, professor MacHugh murmured softly, biscuitfully to the dusty windowpane.
Mr Dedalus, staring from die empty fireplace at Ned Lambert’s quizzing face, asked of it sourly:    —Agonising Christ, wouldn’t it give you a heartburn on your arse?
Ned Lambert, seated on the table, read on:  —Or again, note the meanderings of some purling rill as it babbles on its way, fanned by gentlest zephyrs tho’ quarrelling with the stony obstacles, to the tumbling waters of Neptune’s blue domain, mid mossy banks, played on by the glorious sunlight or ‘neath the shadows cast o’er its pensive bosom by the overarching leafage of the giants of the forest.
What about that, Simon?
he asked over the fringe of his newspaper.
How’s that for high?
—Changing his drink, Mr Dedalus said.
Ned Lambert, laughing, struck the newspaper on his knees, repeating:  —The pensive bosom and the overarsing leafage.
O boys!
O boys!
—And Xenophon looked upon Marathon, Mr Dedalus said, looking again on the fireplace and to the window, and Marathon looked on the sea.
—That will do, professor MacHugh cried from the window.
I don’t want to hear any more of the stuff.
He ate off the crescent of water biscuit he had been nibbling and, hungered, made ready to nibble the biscuit in his other hand.
High falutin stuff.
Bladderbags.
Ned Lambert is taking a day off I see.
Rather upsets a man’s day a funeral does.
He has influence they say.
Old Chatterton, the vice-chancellor, is his granduncle or his greatgrand-uncle.
Close on ninety they say.
Subleader for his death written this long time perhaps.
Living to spite them.
Might go first himself.
Johnny, make room for your uncle.
The right honourable Hedges Eyre Chatterton.
Daresay he writes him an odd shaky cheque or two on gale days.
Windfall when he kicks out.
Alleluia.
—Just another spasm, Ned Lambert said.
—What is it?
Mr Bloom asked.
—A recently discovered fragment of Cicero’s, professor MacHugh answered with pomp of tone.
Our lovely land.
SHORT BUT TO THE POINT   —Whose land?
Air Bloom said simply.
—Most pertinent question, the professor said between his chews.
With an accent on the whose.
—Dan Dawson’s land, Mr Dedalus said.
—Is it his speech last night?
Mr Bloom asked.
Ned Lambert nodded.
—But listen to this, he said.
The doorknob bit Mr Bloom in the small of the back as the door was pushed in.
—Excuse me, J. J. O’Molloy said, entering.
Mr Bloom moved nimbly aside.
—I beg yours, he said.
—Good day, Jack.
