So warm.
His right hand once more more slowly went over again: choice blend, made of the finest Ceylon brands.
The far east.
Lovely spot it must be: the garden of the world, big lazy leaves to float about on, cactuses, flowery meads, snaky lianas they call them.
Wonder is it like that.
Those Cinghalese lobbing around in the sun, in dolcefar triente.
Not doing a hand’s turn all day.
Sleep six months out of twelve.
Too hot to quarrel.
Influence of the climate.
Lethargy.
Flowers of idleness.
The air feeds most.
Azotes.
Hothouse in Botanic gardens.
Sensitive plants.
Waterlilies.
Petals too tired to.
Sleeping sickness in the air.
Walk on rose-leaves.
Imagine trying to eat tripe and cowheel.
Where was the chap I saw in that picture somewhere?
Ah, in the dead sea, floating on his back, reading a book with a parasol open.
Couldn’t sink if you tried: so thick with salt.
Because the weight of the water, no, the weight of the body in the water is equal to the weight of the.
Or is it the volume is equal of the weight?
It’s a law something like that.
Vance in High school cracking his fingerjoints, teaching.
The college curriculum.
Cracking curriculum.
What is weight really when you say the weight?
Thirtytwo feet per second, per second.
Law of falling bodies: per second, per second.
They all fall to the ground.
The earth.
It’s the force of gravity of the earth is the weight.
He turned away and sauntered across the road.
How did she walk with her sausages?
Like that something.
As he walked he took the folded Freeman from his sidepocket, unfolded it, rolled it lengthwise in a baton and tapped it at each sauntering step against his trouser-leg.
Careless air: just drop in to see.
Per second, per second.
Per second for every second it means.
From the curbstone he darted a keen glance through the door of the postoffice.
Too late box.
Post here.
No-one.
In.
He handed the card through the brass grill.
—Are there any letters for me?
he asked.
While the postmistress searched a pigeonhole he gazed at the recruiting poster with soldiers of all arms on parade: and held the tip of his baton against his nostrils, smelling freshprinted rag paper.
No answer probably.
Went too far last time.
The postmistress handed him back through the grill his card with a letter.
He thanked and glanced rapidly at the typed envelope.
Henry Flower, Esq.
c/o P. O. Westland Row, City.
Answered anyhow.
He slipped card and letter into his sidepocket, reviewing again the soldiers on parade.
Where’s old Tweedy’s regiment?
Castoff soldier.
There: bearskin cap and hackle plume.
No, he’s a grenadier.
Pointed cuffs.
There he is: royal Dublin fusiliers.
Redcoats.
Too showy.
That must be why the women go after them.
Uniform.
Easier to enlist and drill.
Maud Gonne’s letter about taking them off O’Connell street at night: disgrace to our Irish capital.
Griffith’s paper is on the same tack now: an army rotten with venereal disease: overseas or halfseasover empire.
Half baked they look: hypnotised like.
Eyes front.
Mark time.
Table: able.
Bed: ed.
The King’s own.
Never see him dressed up as a fireman or a bobby.
A mason, yes.
He strolled out of the postoffice and turned to the right.
Talk: as if that would mend matters.
His hand went into his pocket and a forefinger felt its way under the flap of the envelope, ripping it open in jerks.
Women will pay a lot of heed, I don’t think.
His fingers drew forth the letter and crumpled the envelope in his pocket.
Something pinned on: photo perhaps.
Hair?
No.
M’Coy.
Get rid of him quickly.
Take me out of my way.
Hate company when you.
—Hello, Bloom.
Where are you off to?
—Hello, M‘Coy.
Nowhere in particular.
—How’s the body?
—Fine.
How are you?
—Just keeping alive, M‘Coy said.
His eyes on the black tie and clothes he asked with low respect:  —Is there any…no trouble I hope?
I see you’re…  —O no, Mr Bloom said.
Poor Dignam, you know.
The funeral is today.
—To be sure, poor fellow.
So it is.
What time?
A photo it isn’t.
A badge maybe.
—E…eleven, Mr Bloom answered.
—I must try to get out there, M‘Coy said.
Eleven, is it?
I only heard it last night.
Who was telling me?
Holohan.
You know Hoppy?
—I know.
Mr Bloom gazed across the road at the outsider drawn up before the door of the Grosvenor.
The porter hoisted the valise up on the well.
She stood still, waiting, while the man, husband, brother, like her, searched his pockets for change.
Stylish kind of coat with that roll collar, warm for a day like this, looks like blanketcloth.
Careless stand of her with her hands in those patch pockets.
Like that haughty creature at the polo match.
Women all for caste till you touch the spot.
Handsome is and handsome does.
Reserved about to yield.
The honourable Mrs and Brutus is an honourable man.
Possess her once take the starch out of her.
—I was with Bob Doran, he’s on one of his periodical bends, and what do you call him Bantam Lyons.
Just down there in Conway’s we were.
Doran, Lyons in Conway’s.
She raised a gloved hand to her hair.
In came Hoppy.
Having a wet.
Drawing back his head and gazing far from beneath his veiled eyelids he saw the bright fawn skin shine in the glare, the braided drums.
Clearly I can see today.
Moisture about gives long sight perhaps.
Talking of one tiling or another.
Lady’s hand.
Which side will she get up?
—And he said: Sad thing about our poor friend Paddy !
What Paddy?
I said.
Poor little Paddy Dignam, he said.
Off to the country: Broadstone probably.
High brown boots with laces dangling.
Wellturned foot.
What is he fostering over that change for?
Sees me looking.
Eye out for other fellow always.
Good fallback.
Two strings to her bow.
—Why?
I said.
What’s wrong with him?
I said.
Proud: rich: silk stockings.
—Yes, Mr Bloom said.
He moved a little to the side of M‘Coy’s talking head.
Getting up in a minute.
—What’s wrong with him?
he said.
He’s dead, he said.
And, faith, he filled up.
Is it Paddy Dignam?
I said.
I couldn’t believe it when I heard it.
I was with him no later than Friday last or Thursday was it in the Arch.
Yes, he said.
He’s gone.
He died on Monday, poor fellow.
Watch!
Watch!
Silk flash rich stockings white.
Watch!
A heavy tramcar honking its gong slewed between.
Lost it.
Curse your noisy pugnose.
Feels locked out of it.
Paradise and the peri.
Always happening like that.
The very moment.
Girl in Eustace street hallway.
Monday was it settling her garter.
Her friend covering the display of.
Esprit de corps.
Well, what are you gaping at?
—Yes, yes, Mr Bloom said after a dull sigh.
Another gone.
—One of the best, M‘Coy said.
The tram passed.
They drove off towards the Loop Line bridge, her rich gloved hand on the steel grip.
Flicker, flicker: the laceflare of her hat in the sun: flicker, flick.
—Wife well, I suppose?
M’Coy’s changed voice said.
—O yes, Mr Bloom said.
Tiptop, thanks.
He unrolled the newspaper bacon idly and read idly:  What is home without  Plumtree’s Potted Meat?
Incomplete.
With it an abode of bliss.
—My missus has just got an engagement.
At least it’s not settled yet.
Valise tack again.
By the way no harm.
I’m off that, thanks.
Mr Bloom turned his largelidded eyes with unhasty friendliness.
—My wife too, he said.
She’s going to sing at a swagger affair in the Ulster hall, Belfast, on the twenty-fifth.
—That so?
M’Coy said.
Glad to hear that, old man.
Who’s getting it up?
Mrs Marion Bloom.
Not up yet.
Queen was in her bedroom eating bread and.
No book.
Blackened court cards laid along her thigh by sevens.
Dark lady and fair man.
Cat furry black ball.
Torn strip of envelope.
Love’s  Old  Sweet  Song  Comes lo-ve’s old…    —It’s a kind of a tour, don’t you see?
Mr Bloom said thoughtfully.
Sweet song.
There’s a committee formed.
Part shares and part profits.
M’Coy nodded, picking at his moustache stubble.
—O well, he said.
That’s good news.
He moved to go.
—Well, glad to see you looking fit, he said.
Meet you knocking around.
—Yes, Mr Bloom said.
—Tell you what, M’Coy said.
You might put down my name at the funeral, will you?
I’d like to go but I mightn’t be able, you see.
There’s a drowning case at Sandycove may turn up and then the coroner and myself would have to go down if the body is found.
You just shove in my name if I’m not there, will you?
—I’ll do that, Mr Bloom said, moving to get off.
That’ll be all right.
—Right, M’Coy said brightly.
Thanks, old man.
I’d go if I possibly could.
Well, tolloll.
Just C. P. M’Coy will do.
—That will be done, Mr Bloom answered firmly.
Didn’t catch me napping that wheeze.
The quick touch.
Soft mark.
I’d like my job.
Valise I have a particular fancy for.
Leather.
Capped corners, riveted edges, double action lever lock.
Bob Cowley lent him his for the Wicklow regatta concert last year and never heard tidings of it from that good day to this.
Mr Bloom, strolling towards Brunswick street, smiled.
My missus has just got an.
Reedy freckled soprano.
Cheeseparing nose.
Nice enough in its way: for a little ballad.
No guts in it.
You and me, don’t you know?
In the same boat.
Softsoaping.
Give you the needle that would.
Can’t he hear the difference?
Think he’s that way inclined a bit.
Against my grain somehow.
Thought that Belfast would fetch him.
I hope that smallpox up there doesn’t get worse.
Suppose she wouldn’t let herself be vaccinated again.
Your wife and my wife.
Wonder is he pimping after me?
Mr Bloom stood at the corner, his eyes wandering over the multicoloured hoardings.
Cantrell and Cochrane’s Ginger Ale (Aromatic).
Clery’s summer sale.
No, he’s going on straight.
Hello.
Leah tonight: Mrs Bandman Palmer.
Like to see her in that again.
Hamlet she played last night.
Male impersonator.
Perhaps he was a woman.
Why Ophelia committed suicide?
Poor papa!
How he used to talk about Kate Bateman in that!
Outside the Adelphi in London waited all the afternoon to get in.
Year before I was born that was: sixtyfive.
And Ristori in Vienna.
What is this the right name is?
By Mosenthal it is.
Rachel, is it?
No.
The scene he was always talking about where the old blind Abraham recognises the voice and puts his fingers on his face.
—Nathan’s voice!
His son’s voice!
I hear the voice of Nathan who left his father to die of grief and misery in my arms, who left the house of his father and left the God of his father.
Every word is so deep, Leopold.
Poor papa!
Poor man!
I’m glad I didn’t go into the room to look at his face.
That day!
O dear!
O dear!
Ffoo!
Well, perhaps it was the best for him.
Mr Bloom went round the corner and passed the drooping nags of the hazard.
No use thinking of it any more.
Nosebag time.
Wish I hadn’t met that M’Coy fellow.
He came nearer and heard a crunching of gilded oats, the gently champing teeth.
Their full buck eyes regarded him as he went by, amid the sweet oaten reek of horse-piss.
Their Eldorado.
Poor jugginses!
Damn all they know or care about anything with their long noses stuck in nosebags.
Too full for words.
Still they get their feed all right and their doss.
Gelded too: a stump of black guttapercha wagging limp between their haunches.
Might be happy all the same that way.
Good poor brutes they look.
Still their neigh can be very irritating.
He drew the letter from his pocket and folded it into the newspaper he carried.
Alight just walk into her here.
The lane is safer.
He passed the cabman’s shelter.
Curious the life of drifting cabbies, all weathers, all places, time or setdown, no will of their own.
Voglio e rum.
Like to give them an odd cigarette.
Sociable.
Shout a few flying syllables as they pass.
He hummed:  La ci darem la mano  La la lala la la.
He turned into Cumberland street and, going on some paces, halted in the lee of the station wall.
No-one.
Meade’s timberyard.
Piled balks.
Ruins and tenements.
With careful tread he passed over a hopscotch court with its forgotten pickeystone.
Not a sinner.
Near the timberyard a squatted child at marbles, alone, shooting the taw with a cunnythumb.
A wise tabby, a blinking sphinx, watched from her warm sill.
Pity to disturb them.
Mohammed cut a piece out of his mantle not to wake her.
Open it.
And once I played marbles when I went to that old dame’s school.
She liked mignonette.
Mrs Ellis’s.
And Mr?
He opened the letter within the newspaper.
A flower.
I think it’s a.
A yellow flower with flattened petals.
Not annoyed then?
What does she say?
Dear Henry,  I got your last letter to me and thank you very much for it.
I am sorry you did not like my last letter.
Why did you enclose the stamps?
I am awfully angry with you.
I do wish I could punish you for that.
I called you naughty boy because I do not like that other world.
Please tell me what is the real meaning of that word.
Are you not happy in your home you poor little naughty boy?
I do wish I could do something for you.
Please tell me what you think of poor me.
I often think of the beautiful name you have.
Dear Henry, when will we meet?
I think of you so often you have no idea.
I have never felt myself so much drawn to a man as you.
I feel so bad about.
Please write me a long letter and tell me more.
Remember if you do not I will punish you.
So now you know what I will do to you, you naughty boy, if you do not write.
O how I long to meet you.
Henry dear, do not deny my request before my patience are exhausted.
Then I will tell you all.
Goodbye now, naughty darling.
I have such a bad headache today and write by return to your longing  Martha.
P.S.
Do tell me what kind of perfume does your wife use.
I want to know.
He tore the flower gravely from its pinhold smelt its almost no smell and placed it in his heart pocket.
Language of flowers.
They like it because no-one can hear.
Or a poison bouquet to strike him down.
Then, walking slowly forward, he read the letter again, murmuring here and there a word.
Angry tulips with you darling manflower punish your cactus if you don’t please poor forgetmenot how I long violets to dear roses when we soon anemone meet all naughty nightstalk wife Martha’s perfume.
Having read it all he took it from the newspaper and put it back in his sidepocket.
Weak joy opened his lips.
Changed since the first letter.
Wonder did she write it herself.
Doing the indignant: a girl of good family like me, respectable character.
Could meet one Sunday after the rosary.
Thank you: not having any.
Usual love scrimmage.
Then running round corners.
Bad as a row with Molly.
Ggar has a cooling effect.
Narcotic.
Go further next time.
Naughty boy: punish: afraid of words, of course.
Brutal, why not?
Try it anyhow.
