U. p…  And he started laughing.
—Who are you laughing at?
says Bob Doran.
Is that Bergan?
—Hurry up, Terry boy, says Alf.
Terence O’Ryan heard him and straightway brought him a crystal cup full of the foaming ebon ale which the noble twin brothers Bungiveagh and Bungardilaun brew ever in their divine alevats, cunning as the sons of deathless Leda.
For they garner the succulent berries of the hop and mass and sift and bruise and brew them and they mix therewith sour juices and bring the must to the sacred fire and cease not night or day from their toil, those cunning brothers, lords of the vat.
Then did you, chivalrous Terence, hand forth, as to the manner born, that nectarous beverage and you offered the crystal cup to him that thirsted, the soul of chivalry, in beauty akin to the immortals.
But he, the young chief of the O’Bergan’s, could ill brook to be outdone in generous deeds but gave therefor with gracious gesture a testoon of costliest bronze.
Thereon embossed in excellent smithwork was seen the image of a queen of regal port, scion of the house of Brunswick, Victoria her name, Her Most Excellent Majesty, by grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British dominions beyond the sea, queen, defender of the faith, Empress of India, even she, who bore rule, a victress over many peoples, the wellbeloved, for they knew and loved her from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof, the pale, the dark, the ruddy and the ethiop.
—What’s that bloody freemason doing, says the citizen, prowling up and down outside?
—What’s that?
says Joe.
—Here you are, says Alf, chucking out the rhino Talking about hanging.
I’ll show you something you never saw.
Hangmen’s letters.
Look at here.
So he took a bundle of wisps of letters and envelopes out of his pocket.
—Are you codding?
says I.
—Honest injun, says Alf.
Read them.
So Joe took up the letters.
—Who are you laughing at?
says Bob Doran.
So I saw there was going to be bit of a dust.
Bob’s a queer chap when the porter’s up in him so sap I just to make talk:  —How’s Willy Murray those times, Alf?
—I don’t know, says Alf.
I saw him just now in Capel Street with Paddy Dignam.
Only I was running after that…  —You what?
says Joe, throwing down the letters.
With who?
—With Dignam, says Alf.
—Is it Paddy?
says Joe.
—Yes, says Alf.
Why?
—Don’t you know he’s dead?
says Joe.
—Paddy Dignam dead?
says Alf.
—Ay, says Joe.
—Sure I’m after seeing him not five minutes ago, says Alf, as plain as a pikestaff.
—Who’s dead?
says Bob Doran.
—You saw his ghost then, says Joe, God between us and harm.
—What?
says Alf.
Good Christ, only five…What?…and Willie Murray with him, the two of them there near whatdoyoucallhim’s…What?
Dignam dead?
—What about Dignam?
says Bob Doran.
Who’s talking about…?
—Dead!
says Alf.
He is no more dead than you are.
—Maybe so, says Joe.
They took the liberty of burying him this morning anyhow.
—Paddy?
says Alf.
—Ay, says Joe.
He paid the debt of nature, God be merciful to him.
—Good Christ!
says Alf.
Begob he was what you might call flabbergasted.
In the darkness spirit hands were felt to flutter and when prayer by tantras had been directed to the proper quarter a faint but increasing luminosity of ruby light became gradually visible, the apparition of the etheric double being particularly lifelike owing to the discharge of jivic rays from the crown of the head and face.
Communication was effected through the pituitary body and also by means of the orangefiery and scarlet rays emanating from the sacral region and solar plexus.
Questioned by his earthname as to his whereabouts in the heaven-world he stated that he was now on the path of prālāyā or return but was still submitted to trial at the hands of certain bloodthirsty entities on the lower astral levels.
In reply to a question as to his first sensations in the great divide beyond he stated that previously he had seen as in a glass darkly but that those who had passed over had summit possibilities of atmic development opened up to them.
Interrogated as to whether life there resembled our experience in the flesh he stated that he had heard from more favoured beings now in the spirit that their abodes were equipped with every modern home comfort such as tālāfānā, ālāvātār, hātākāldā, wātāklāsāt and that the highest adepts were steeped in waves of volupcy of the very purest nature.
Having requested a quart of buttermilk this was brought and evidently afforded relief.
Asked if he had any message for the living he exhorted all who were still at the wrong side of Māyā to acknowledge the true path for it was reported in devanic circles that Mars and Jupiter were out for mischief on the eastern angle where the ram has power.
It was then queried whether there were any special desires on the part of the defunct and the reply was: We greet you, friends of earth, who are still in the body.
Mind C. K. doesn’t pile it on.
It was ascertained that the reference was to Mr Cornelius Kelleher, manager of Messrs H. J. O’Neill’s popular funeral establishment, a personal friend of the defunct, who had been responsible for the carrying out of the interment arrangements.
Before departing he requested that it should be told to his dear son Patsy that the other boot which he had been looking for was at present under the commode in the return room and that the pair should be sent to Cullen’s to be soled only as the heels were still good.
He stated that this had greatly perturbed his peace of mind in the other region and earnestly requested that his desire should be made known.
Assurances were given that the matter would be attended to and it was intimated that this had given satisfaction.
He is gone from mortal haunts: O’Dignam, sun of our morning.
Fleet was his foot on the bracken: Patrick of the beamy brow.
Wail, Banba, with your wind: and wail, O ocean, with your whirlwind.
—There he is again, says the citizen, staring out.
—Who?
says I.
—Bloom, says he.
He’s on point duty up and down there for the last ten minutes.
And, begob, I saw his physog do a peep in and then slidder off again.
Little Alf was knocked bawways.
Faith, he was.
—Good Christ!
says he.
I could have sworn it was him.
And says Bob Doran, with the hat on the back of his poll, lowest blackguard in Dublin when he’s under the influence:  —Who said Christ is good?
—I beg your parsnips, says Alf.
—Is that a good Christ, says Bob Doran, to take away poor little Willy Dignam?
—Ah, well, says Alf, trying to pass it off.
He’s over all his troubles.
But Bob Doran shouts out of him.
—He’s a bloody ruffian I say, to take away poor little Willy Dignam.
Terry came down and tipped him the wink to keep quiet, that they didn’t want that kind of talk in a respectable licensed premises.
And Bob Doran starts doing the weeps about Paudy Dignam, true as you’re there.
—The finest man, says he, snivelling, the finest purest character.
The tear is bloody near your eye.
Talking through his bloody hat.
Fitter for him to go home to the little sleepwalking bitch he married, Mooney, the bumbailiff’s daughter.
Mother kept a kip in Hardwicke street that used to be stravaging about the landings Bantam Lyons told me that was stopping there at two in the morning without a stitch on her, exposing her person, open to all comers, fair field and no favour.
—The noblest, the truest, says he.
And he’s gone, poor litde Willy, poor little Paddy Dignam.
And mournful and with a heavy heart he bewept the extinction of that beam of heaven.
Old Garryowen started growling again at Bloom that was skeezing round the door.
—Come in, come on, he won’t eat you, says the citizen.
So Bloom slopes in with his cod’s eye on the dog and he asks Terry was Martin Cunningham there.
—O, Christ M’Keown, says Joe, reading one of the letters.
Listen to this, will you?
And he starts reading out one.
7, Hunter Street, Liverpool.
To the High Sheriff of Dublin, Dublin.
Honoured sir i beg to offer my services in the above-mentioned painful case i hanged Joe Gann in Boothle jail on the 12 of February 1900 and i hanged…  —Show us, Joe, says I.
—... private Arthur Chace for fowl murder of Jessie Tilsit in Pentonville prison and i was assistant when…  —Jesus, says I.
—…Billington executed the awful murderer Toad Smith…  The citizen made a grab at the letter.
—Hold hard, says Joe, i have a special nack of putting the noose once in he can’t get out hoping to be favoured i remain, honoured sir, my terms is five ginnese.
H. Rumbold,  Master Barber.
—And a barbarous bloody barbarian he is too, says the citizen.
—And the dirty scrawl of the wretch, says Joe.
Here, says he, take them to hell out of my sight, Alf.
Hello, Bloom, says he, what will you have?
So they started arguing about the point, Bloom saying he wouldn’t and couldn’t and excuse him no offence and all to that and then he said well he’d just take a cigar.
Gob, he’s a prudent member and no mistake.
—Give us one of your prime stinkers, Terry, says Joe.
And Alf was telling us there was one chap sent in a mourning card with a black border round it.
—They’re all barbers, says he, from the black country that would hang their own fathers for five quid down and travelling expenses.
And he was telling us there’s two fellows waiting below to pull his heels down when he gets the drop and choke him properly and then they chop up the rope after and sell the bits for a few bob a skull.
In the dark land they bide, the vengeful knights of the razor.
Their deadly coil they grasp: yea, and therein they lead to Erebus whatsoever wight hath done a deed of blood for I will on nowise suffer it even so saith the Lord.
So they started talking about capital punishment and of course Bloom comes out with the why and the wherefore and all the codology of the business and the old dog smelling him all the time I’m told those Jewies does have a sort of a queer odour coming off them for dogs about I don’t know what all deterrent effect and so forth and so on.
—There’s one thing it hasn’t a deterrent effect on, says Alf.
—What’s that?
says Joe.
—The poor bugger’s tool that’s being hanged, says Alf.
—That so?
says Joe.
—God’s truth, says Alf.
I heard that from the head warder that was in Kilmainham when they hanged Joe Brady, the invincible.
He told me when they cut him down after the drop it was standing up in their faces like a poker.
—Ruling passion strong in death, says Joe, as someone said.
—That can be explained by science, says Bloom.
It’s only a natural phenomenon, don’t you see, because on account of the…  And then he starts with his jawbreakers about phenomenon and science and this phenomenon and the other phenomenon.
The distinguished scientist Herr Professor Luitpold Blumenduft tendered medical evidence to the effect that the instantaneous fracture of the cervical vertebrae and consequent scission of the spinal cord would, according to the best approved traditions of medical science, be calculated to inevitably produce in the human subject a violent ganglionic stimulus of the nerve centres, causing the pores of the corpora cavernosa to rapidly dilate in such a way as to instantaneously facilitate the flow of blood to that part of the human anatomy known as the penis or male organ resulting in the phenomenon which has been dominated by the faculty a morbid upwards and outwards philoprogenitive erection in articulo mortis per diminutionem capitis.
So of course the citizen was only waiting for the wink of the word and he starts gassing out of him about the invincibles and the old guard and the men of sixtyseven and who fears to speak of ninetyeight and Joe with him about all the fellows that were hanged, drawn and transported for the cause by drumhead courtmartial and a new Ireland and new this, that and the other.
Talking about new Ireland he ought to go and get a new dog so he ought.
Mangy ravenous brute sniffling and sneezing all round the place and scratching his scabs and round he goes to Bob Doran that was standing Alf a half one sucking up for what he could get.
So of course Bob Doran starts doing the bloody fool with him:  —Give us the paw!
Give the paw, doggy!
Good old doggy.
Give us the paw here!
Give us the paw!
Arrah!
bloody end to the paw he’d paw and Alf trying to keep him from tumbling off the bloody stool atop of the bloody old dog and he talking all kinds of drivel about training by kindness and thoroughbred dog and intelligent dog: give you the bloody pip.
Then he starts scraping a few bits of old biscuit out of the bottom of a Jacob’s tin he told Terry to bring.
Gob, he golloped it down like old boots and his tongue hanging out of him a yard long for more.
Near ate the tin and all, hungry bloody mongrel.
And the citizen and Bloom having an argument about the point, the brothers Sheares and Wolfe Tone beyond on Arbour Hill and Robert Emmet and die for your country, the Tommy Moore touch about Sara Curran and she’s far from the land.
And Bloom, of course, with his knockmedown cigar putting on swank with his lardy face.
Phenomenon!
The fat heap he married is a nice old phenomenon with a back on her like a ballalley.
Time they were stopping up in the City Arms Pisser Burke told me there was an old one there with a cracked loodheramaun of a nephew and Bloom trying to get the soft side of her doing the mollycoddle playing bézique to come in for a bit of the wampum in her will and not eating meat of a Friday because the old one was always thumping her craw and taking the lout out for a walk.
And one time he led him the rounds of Dublin and, by the holy farmer, he never cried crack till he brought him home as drunk as a boiled owl and he said he did it to teach him the evils of alcohol and by herrings if the three women didn’t near roast him it’s a queer story, the old one, Bloom’s wife and Mrs O’Dowd that kept the hotel.
Jesus, I had to laugh at Pisser Burke taking them off chewing the fat and Bloom with his but don’t you see?
and but on the other hand.
And sure, more be token, the lout I’m told was in Power’s after, the blender’s, round in Cope street going home footless in a cab five times in the week after drinking his way through all the samples in the bloody establishment.
Phenomenon!
—The memory of the dead, says the citizen taking up his pintglass and glaring at Bloom.
—Ay, ay, says Joe.
—You don’t grasp my point, says Bloom.
What I mean is…  —Sinn Fein!
says the citizen.
Sinn fein amhain!
The friends we love are by our side and the foes we hate before us.
The last farewell was affecting in the extreme.
From the belfries far and near the funereal deathbell tolled unceasingly while all around the gloomy precincts rolled the ominous warning of a hundred muffled drums punctuated by the hollow booming of pieces of ordnance.
The deafening claps of thunder and the dazzling flashes of lightning which lit up the ghastly scene testified that the artillery of heaven had lent its supernatural pomp to the already gruesome spectacle.
A torrential rain poured down from the floodgates of the angry heavens upon the bared heads of the assembled multitude which numbered at the lowest computation five hundred thousand persons.
A posse of Dublin Metropolitan police superintended by the Chief Commissioner in person maintained order in the vast throng for whom the York Street brass and reed band whiled away the intervening time by admirably rendering on their blackdraped instruments the matchless melody endeared to us from the cradle by Speranza’s plaintive muse.
Special quick excursion trains and upholstered charabancs had been provided for the comfort of our country cousins of whom there were large contingents.
Considerable amusement was caused by the favourite Dublin streetsingers L-n-h-n and M-ll-g-n who sang The Night before Larry was stretched in their usual mirth-provoking fashion.
Our two inimitable drolls did a roaring trade with their broadsheets among lovers of the comedy element and nobody who has a corner in his heart for real Irish fun without vulgarity will grudge them their hardearned pennies.
The children of the Male and Female Foundling Hospital who thronged the windows overlooking the scene were delighted with this unexpected addition to the day’s entertainment and a word of praise is due to the Little Sisters of the Poor for their excellent idea of affording the poor fatherless and motherless children a genuinely instructive treat.
The viceregal houseparty which included many well-known ladies was chaperoned by Their Excellencies to the most favourable positions on the grand stand while the picturesque foreign delegation known as the Friends of the Emerald Isle was accommodated on a tribune directly opposite.
The delegation, present in full force, consisted of Commendatore Eacibaci Beninobenone (the semiparalysed doyen of the party who had to be assisted to his seat by the aid of a powerful steam crane), Monsieur Pierrepaul Petitépatant, the Grandjoker Vladinmire Pokethankertscheff, the Archjoker Leopold Rudolph von Schwanzenbad-Hodenthaler, Countess Marha Virága Kisászony Putrápesthi, Hiram Y. Bomboost, Count Athanatos Karamelopulos.
Ali Baba Backsheesh Rahat Lokum Effendi, Señor Hidalgo Caballero Don Pecadillo y Palabras y Paternoster de la Malora de la Malaria, Hokopoko Harakiri, Hi Hung Chang, Olaf Kobber-keddelsen, Mynheer Trik van Trumps, Pan Poleaxe Paddyrisky, Goosepond Prhklstr Kratchinabritchisitchj Herr Hurhausdirektorpräsident Hans Chuechli-Steuerli, Nationalgymnasiummuseumsanatoriumandsuspen- soriumsordinarvprivatdocentgeneralhistoryspecialprofes-sordoctor Kriegfried Ueberallgemein.
All the delegates without exception expressed themselves in the strongest possible heterogeneous terms concerning the nameless barbarity which they had been called upon to witness.
An animated altercation (in which all took part) ensued among F. O. T. E. I. as to whether the eighth or the ninth of March was the correct date of the birth of Ireland’s patron saint.
In the course of the argument cannonballs, scimitars, boomerangs, blunderbusses, stinkpots, meatchoppers, umbrellas, catapults, knuckledusters, sandbags, lumps of pig iron were resorted to and blows were freely exchanged.
The baby policeman, Constable MacFadden, summoned by special courier from Booterstown, quickly restored order and with lightning promptitude proposed the seventeenth of the month as a solution equally honourable for both contending parties.
The readywitted ninefooter’s suggestion at once appealed to all and was unanimously accepted.
Constable MacFadden was heartily congratulated by all the F.O.T.E.I., several of whom were bleeding profusely.
Commendatore Beninobenone having been extricated from underneath the presidential armchair, it was explained by his legal adviser Awocato Pagamimi that the various articles secreted in his thirtytwo pockets had been abstracted by him during the affray from the pockets of his junior colleagues in the hope of bringing them to their senses.
The objects (which included several hundred ladies’ and gentlemen’s gold and silver watches) were promptly restored to their rightful owners and general harmony reigned supreme.
Quietly, unassumingly, Rumbold stepped on to the scaffold in faultless morning dress and wearing his favourite flower the Gladiolus Cruentus.
He announced his presence by that gentle Rumboldian cough which so many have tried (unsuccessfully) to imitate—short, painstaking yet withal so characteristic of the man.
The arrival of the world-renowned headsman was greeted by a roar of acclamation from the huge concourse, the viceregal ladies waving their handkerchiefs in their excitement while the even more excitable foreign delegates cheered vociferously in a medley of cries, hoch, banzai, eljen, zivio, chinchin, folia kronia, hiphip, vive, Allah, amid which the ringing ewiva of the delegate of the land of song (a high double F recalling those piercingly lovely notes with which the eunuch Catalani beglamoured our greatgreatgrandmothers) was easily distinguishable.
It was exactly seventeen o’clock.
The signal for prayer was then promptly given by megaphone and in an instant all heads were bared, the commen-datore’s patriarchal sombrero, which has been in the possession of his family since the revolution of Rienzi, being removed by his medical adviser in attendance, Dr Pippi.
The learned prelate who administered the last comforts of holy religion to the hero martyr when about to pay the death penalty knelt in a most Christian spirit in a pool of rainwater, his cassock above his hoary head, and offered up to the throne of grace fervent prayers of supplication.
Hard by the block stood the grim figure of the executioner, his visage being concealed in a tengallon pot with two circular perforated apertures through which his eyes glowered furiously.
As he awaited the fatal signal he tested the edge of his horrible weapon by honing it upon his brawny forearm or decapitated in rapid succession a flock of sheep which had been provided by the admirers of his fell but necessary office.
On a handsome mahogany table near him were neatly arranged the quartering knife, the various finely tem- pered disembowelling appliances (specially supplied by the worldfamous firm of cutlers, Messrs John Round and Sons, Sheffield), a terracotta saucepan for the reception of the duodenum, colon, blind intestine and appendix etc when successfully extracted and two commodious milkjugs destined to receive the most precious blood of the most precious victim.
The housesteward of the amalgamated cats’ and dogs’ home was in attendance to convey these vessels when replenished to that beneficent institution.
Quite an excellent repast consisting of rashers and eggs, fried steak and onions, done to a nicety, delicious hot breakfast rolls and invigorating tea had been considerately provided by the authorities for the consumption of the central figure of the tragedy who was in capital spirits when prepared for death and evinced the keenest interest in the proceedings from beginning to end but he, with an abnegation rare in these our times, rose nobly to the occasion and expressed the dying wish (immediately acceded to) that the meal should be divided in aliquot parts among the members of the sick and indigent roomkeeper’s association as a token of his regard and esteem.
The nee and non plus ultra of emotion were reached when the blushing bride elect burst her way through the serried ranks of the bystanders and flung herself upon the muscular bosom of him who was about to be launched into eternity for her sake.
The hero folded her willowy form in a loving embrace murmuring fondly Sheila, my own.
Encouraged by this use of her Christian name she kissed passionately all the various suitable areas of his person which the decencies of prison garb permitted her ardour to reach.
She swore to him as they mingled the salt streams of their tears that she would cherish his memory, that she would never forget her hero boy who went to his death with a song on his lips as if he were but going to a hurling match in Clonturk park.
She brought back to his recollection the happy days of blissful childhood together on the banks of Anna Liffey when they had indulged in the innocent pastimes of the young and, oblivious of the dreadful present, they both laughed heartily, all the spectators, including the venerable pastor, joining in the general merriment.
That monster audience simply rocked with delight.
But anon they were overcome with grief and clasped their hands for the last time.
A fresh torrent of tears burst from their lachrymal ducts and the vast concourse of people, touched to the inmost core, broke into heartrending sobs, not the least affected being the aged prebendary himself.
Big strong men, officers of the peace and genial giants of the royal Irish constabulary, were making frank use of their handkerchiefs and it is safe to say that there was not a dry eye in that record assemblage.
A most romantic incident occurred when a handsome young Oxford graduate, noted for his chivalry towards the fair sex, stepped forward and, presenting his visiting card, bankbook and genealogical tree solicited the hand of the hapless young lady, requesting her to name the day, and was accepted on the spot.
Every lady in the audience was presented with a tasteful souvenir of the occasion in the shape of a skull and crossbones brooch, a timely and generous act which evoked a fresh outburst of emotion: and when the gallant young Oxonian (the bearer, by the way, of one of the most timehonoured names in Albion’s history) placed on the finger of his blushing fiancée an expensive engagement ring with emeralds set in the form of a fourleaved shamrock excitement knew no bounds.
Nay, even the stern provostmarshal, lieutenantcolonel Tomkin-Maxwell ffrenchmullan Tom- linson, who presided on the sad occasion, he who had blown a considerable number of sepoys from the cannonmouth without flinching, could not now restrain his natural emotion.
With his mailed gauntlet he brushed away a furtive tear and was overheard by those privileged burghers who happened to be in his immediate entourage to murmur to himself in a faltering undertone:  —God blimey if she aint a clinker, that there bleeding tart.
Blimey it makes me kind of bleeding cry, straight, it does, when I sees her cause I thinks of my old mashtub what’s waiting for me down Limehouse way.
So then the citizens begins talking about the Irish language and the corporation meeting and all to that and the shoneens that can’t speak their own language and Joe chipping in because he stuck someone for a quid and Bloom putting in his old goo with his twopenny stump that he cadged off Joe and talking about the Gaelic league and the antitreating league and drink, the curse of Ireland.
Antitreating is about the size of it.
Gob, he’d let you pour all manner of drink down his throat till the Lord would call him before you’d ever see the froth of his pint.
And one night I went in with afellow into one of their musical evenings, song and dance about she could get up on a truss of hay she could my Maureen Lay, and there was a fellow with a Ballyhooly blue ribbon badge spiffing out of him in Irish and a lot of colleen bawns going about with temperance beverages and selling medals and oranges and lemonade and afew old dry buns, gob, flahoolagh entertainment, don’t be talking.
Ireland sober is Ireland free.
And then an old fellow starts blowing into his bagpipes and all the gougers shuffling their feet to the tune the old cow died of.
And one or two sky pilots having an eye around thatthere was no goings on with the females, hitting below the belt.
So howandever, as I was saying, the old dog seeing the tin was empty starts mousing around by Joe and me.
I’d train him by kindness, so I would, if he was my dog.
Give him a rousing fine kick now and again where it wouldn’t blind him.
—Afraid he’ll bite you?
says the citizen, sneering.
—No, says I.
But he might take my leg for a lampost.
So he calls the old dog over.
—What’s on you, Garry?
says he.
Then he starts hauling and mauling and talking to him in Irish and the old towser growling, letting on to answer, like a duet in the opera.
Such growling you never heard as they let off between them.
Someone that has nothing better to do ought to write a letter fro bono publico to the papers about the muzzling order for a dog the like of that.
Growling and grousing and his eye all bloodshot from the drouth is in it and the hydrophobia dropping out of his jaws.
All those who are interested in the spread of human culture among the lower animals (and their name is legion) should make a point of not missing the really marvellous exhibition of cynanthropy given by the famous old Irish red wolfdog setter formerly known by the sobriquet of Garryowen and recently rechristened by his large circle of friends and acquaintances Owen Garry.
The exhibition, which is the result of years of training by kindness and a carefully thoughtout dietary system, comprises, among other achievements, the recitation of verse.
Our greatest living phonetic expert (wild horses shall not drag it from us!)
has left no stone unturned in his efforts to delucidate and compare the verse recited and has found it bears a striking resemblance (the italics are ours) to the ranns of ancient Celtic bards.
We are not speaking so much of those delightful lovesongs with which the writer who conceals his identity under the graceful pseudonym of the Little Sweet Branch has familiarised the bookloving world but rather (as a contributor D. O. C. points out in an interesting communication published by an evening contemporary) of the harsher and more personal note which is found in the satirical effusions of the famous Raftery and of Donald MacConsidine to say nothing of a more modern lyrist at present very much in the public eye.
We subjoin a specimen which has been rendered into English by an eminent scholar whose name for the moment we are not at liberty to disclose though we believe our readers will find the topical allusion rather more than an indication.
The metrical system of the canine original, which recalls the intricate alliterative and isosyllabic rules of the Welsh englyn, is infinitely more complicated but we believe our readers will agree that the spirit has been well caught.
Perhaps it should be added that the effect is greatly increased if Owen’s verse be spoken somewhat slowly and indistinctly in a tone suggestive of suppressed rancour.
The curse of my curses  Seven days every day  And seven dry Thursdays  On you, Barney Kiernan,  Has no sup of water  To cool my courage,  And my guts red roaring  After Lowry’s lights.
So he told Terry to bring some water for the dog and, gob, you could hear him lapping it up a mile off.
And Joe asked him would he have another.
—I will, says he, a chara, to show there’s no ill feeling.
Gob, he’s not as green as he’s cabbagelooking.
Arsing around from one pub to another, leaving it to your own honour, with old Giltrap’s dog and getting fed up by the ratepayers and corporators.
Entertainment for man and beast.
And says Joe:  —Could you make a hole in another pint?
—Could a swim duck?
says I.
—Same again, Terry, says Joe.
Are you sure you won’t have anything in the way of liquid refreshment?
says he.
—Thank you, no, says Bloom.
As a matter of fact I just wanted to meet Martin Cunningham, don’t you see, about this insurance of poor Dignam’s.
Martin asked me to go to the house.
You see, he, Dignam, I mean, didn’t serve any notice of the assignment on the company at the time and nominally under the act the mortgagee can’t recover on the policy.
—Holy Wars, says Joe laughing, that’s a good one if old Shylock is landed.
So the wife comes out top dog, what?
—Well, that’s a point, says Bloom, for the wife’s admirers.
—Whose admirers?
says Joe.
—The wife’s advisers, I mean, says Bloom.
Then he starts all confused mucking it up about the mortgagor under the act like the lord chancellor giving it out on the bench and for the benefit of the wife and that a trust is created but on the other hand that Dignam owed Bridgeman the money and if now the wife or the widow contested the mortgagee’s right till he near had the head of me addled with his mortgagor under the act.
He was bloody safe he wasn’t run in himself under the act that time as a rogue and vagabond only he had a friend in court.
Selling bazaar tickets or what do you call it royal Hungarian privileged lottery.
True as you’re there.
O, commend me to an israelite!
Royal and privileged Hungarian robbery.
So Bob Doran comes lurching around asking Bloom to tell Mrs Dignam he was sorry for her trouble and he was very sorry about the funeral and to tell her that he said and everyone who knew him said that there was never a truer, a finer than poor little Willy that’s dead to tell her.
Choking with bloody foolery.
And shaking Bloom’s hand doing the tragic to tell her that.
Shake hands, brother.
You’re a rogue and I’m another.
—Let me, said he, so far presume upon our acquaintance which, however slight it may appear if judged by the standard of mere time, is founded, as I hope and believe, on a sentiment of mutual esteem, as to request of you this favour.
But, should I have overstepped the limits of reserve let the sincerity of my feelings be the excuse for my boldness.
—No, rejoined the other, I appreciate to the full the motives which actuate your conduct and I shall discharge the office you entrust to me consoled by the reflection that, though the errand be one of sorrow, this proof of your confidence sweetens in some measure the bitterness of the cup.
—Then suffer me to take your hand, said he.
The goodness of your heart, I feel sure, will dictate to you better than my inadequate words the expressions which are most suitable to convey an emotion whose poignancy, were I to give vent to my feelings, would deprive me even of speech.
And off with him and out trying to walk straight.
Boosed at five o’clock.
Night he was near being lagged only Paddy Leonard knew the bobby, 14 A.
Blind to the world up in a shebeen in Bride street after closing time, fornicating with two shawls and a bully on guard, drinking porter out of teacups.
And calling himself a Frenchy for the shawls, Joseph Manuo, and talking against the catholic religion and he serving mass in Adam and Eve’s when he was young with his eyes shut who wrote the new testament and the old testament and hugging and smugging.
And the two shawls killed with the laughing, picking his pockets the bloody fool and he spilling the porter all over the bed and the two shawls screeching laughing at one another.
How is your testament?
Have you got an old testament?
Only Paddy was passing there, I tell you what.
Then see him of a Sunday with his little concubine of a wife, and she wagging her tail up the aisle of the chapel, with her patent boots on her, no less, and her violets, nice as pie, doing the little lady.
Jack Mooney’s sister.
And the old prostitute of a mother procuring rooms to street couples.
Gob, Jack made him toe the line.
Told him if he didn’t patch up the pot, Jesus, he’d kick the shite out of him.
So Terry brought the three pints.
—Here, says Joe, doing the honours.
Here, citizen.
—Slan leat, says he.
—Fortune, Joe, says I.
Good health, citizen.
Gob, he had his mouth half way down the tumbler already.
Want a small fortune to keep him in drinks.
—Who is the long fellow running for the mayoralty, Alf?
says Joe.
—Friend of yours, says Alf.
—Nannan?
says Joe.
The mimber?
—I won’t mention any names, says Alf.
—I thought so, says Joe.
I saw him up at that meeting now with William Field, M. P., the cattle traders.
—Hairy Iopas, says the citizen, that exploded volcano, the darling of all countries and the idol of his own.
So Joe starts telling the citizen about the foot and mouth disease and the cattle traders and taking action in the matter and the citizen sending them all to the rightabout and Bloom coming out with his sheepdip for the scab and a hoose drench for coughing calves and the guaranteed remedy for timber tongue.
Because he was up one time in a knacker’s yard.
Walking about with his book and pencil here’s my head and my heels are coming till Joe Cuffe gave him lie order of the boot for giving lip to a grazier.
Mister Knowall.
Teach your grandmother how to milk ducks.
Pisser Burke was telling me in the hotel the wife used to be in rivers of tears sometimes with Mrs O’Dowd crying her eyes out with her eight inches of fat all over her.
Couldn’t loosen her farting strings but old cod’s eye was waltzing around her showing her how to do it.
What’s your programme today?
Ay.
Humane methods.
Because the poor animals suffer and experts say and the best known remedy that doesn’t cause pain to the animal and on the sore spot administer gently.
Gob, he’d have a soft hand under a hen.
Ga Ga Gara.
Klook Klook Klook.
Black Liz is our hen.
She lays eggs for us.
When she lays her egg she is so glad.
Gara.
Klook Klook Klook.
Then comes good uncle Leo.
He puts his hand under black Liz and takes her fresh egg.
Ga ga ga ga Gara.
Klook Klook Klook.
—Anyhow, says Joe.
Field and Nannetti are going over tonight to London to ask about it on the floor of the House of Commons.
—Are you sure, says Bloom, the councillor is going?
I wanted to see him, as it happens.
—Well, he’s going off by the mailboat, says Joe, tonight.
—That’s too bad, says Bloom.
I wanted particularly.
Perhaps only Mr Field is going.
I couldn’t phone.
No.
You’re sure?
—Nannan’s going too, says Joe.
The league told him to ask a question tomorrow about the commissioner of police forbidding Irish games in the park.
What do you think of that, citizen?
The Sluagh na h-Eireann.
Mr Cowe Conacre (Multifarnham.
Nat): Arising out of the question of my honourable friend, the member for Shillelagh, may I ask the right honourable gentleman whether the Government has issued orders that these animals shall be slaughtered though no medical evidence is forthcoming as to their pathological condition?
Mr Allfours (Tamoshant.
Con): Honourable members are already in possession of the evidence produced before a committee of the whole house.
I feel I cannot usefully add anything to that.
The answer to the honourable member’s question is in the affirmative.
Mr Orelli (Montenotte.
Nat): Have similar orders been issued for the slaughter of human animals who dare to play Irish games in the Phoenix park?
Mr Allfours: The answer is in the negative.
Mr Cowe Conacre: Has the right honourable gentleman’s famous Mitchelstown telegram inspired the policy of gentlemen on the treasury bench?
(O!
O!)
Mr Allfours: I must have notice of that question.
Mr Staylewit (Buncombe.
Ind.
): Don’t hesitate to shoot.
(Ironical opposition cheers.)
The speaker: Order!
Order!
(The house rises.
Cheers.)
—There’s the man, says Joe, that made the Gaelic sports revival.
There he is sitting there.
The man that got away James Stephens.
The champion of all Ireland at putting the sixteen pound shot.
What was your best throw, citizen?
—Na bacleis, says the citizen, letting on to be modest.
There was a time I was as good as the next fellow anyhow.
—Put it there, citizen, says Joe.
You were and a bloody sight better.
—Is that really a fact?
says Alf.
—Yes, says Bloom.
That’s well known.
Do you not know that?
So off they started about Irish sport and shoneen games the like of the lawn tennis and about hurley and putting the stone and racy of the soil and building up a nation once again and all of that.
And of course Bloom had to have his say too about if a fellow had a rower’s heart violent exercise was bad.
I declare to my antimacassar if you took up a straw from the bloody floor and if you said to Bloom: Look at, Bloom.
Do you see that straw?
