—Come in.
Come in.
—Good day.
—How are you, Dedalus?
—Well.
And yourself?
J. J. O’Molloy shook his head.
SAD   Cleverest fellow at the junior bar he used to be.
Decline poor chap.
That hectic flush spells finis for a man.
Touch and go with him.
What’s in the wind, I wonder.
Money worry.
—Or again if we but climb the serried mountain peaks.
—You’re looking extra.
—Is the editor to be seen?
J. J. O’Molloy asked, looking towards the inner door.
—Very much so, professor MacHugh said.
To be seen and heard.
He’s in his sanctum with Lenehan.
J. J. O’Molloy strolled to the sloping desk and began to turn back the pink pages of the file.
Practice dwindling.
A mighthavebeen.
Losing heart.
Gambling.
Debts of honour.
Reaping the whirlwind.
Used to get good retainers from D. and T. Fitzgerald.
Their wigs to show their grey matter.
Brains on their sleeve like the statue in Glasnevin.
Believe he does some literary work for the Express with Gabriel Conroy.
Wellread fellow.
Myles Crawford began on the Inde- pendent.
Funny the way those newspaper men veer about when they get wind of a new opening.
Weather- cocks.
Hot and cold in the same breath.
Wouldn’t know which to believe.
One story good till you hear the next.
Go for one another baldheaded in the papers and then all blows over.
Hailfellow well met the next moment.
—Ah, listen to this for God’s sake, Ned Lambert pleaded.
Or again if zoe but climb the serried mountain peaks…  —Bombast!
the professor broke in testily.
Enough of the inflated windbag!
—Peaks, Ned Lambert went on, towering high on high, to bathe our souls, as it were…  —Bathe his lips, Mr Dedalus said.
Blessed and eternal God!
Yes?
Is he taking anything for it?
—As ’twere, in the peerless panorama of Ireland’s portfolio, unmatched, despite their wellpraised prototypes in other vaunted prize regions, for very beauty, of bosky grove and undulating plain and luscious pastureland of vernal green, steeped in the transcendent translucent glow of our mild mysterious Irish twilight…      HIS NATIVE DORIC   —The moon, professor MacHugh said.
He forgot Hamlet.
—That mantles the vista far and wide and wait till the glowing orb of the moon shines forth to irradiate her silver effulgence.
—O!
Mr Dedalus cried, giving vent to a hopeless groan, shite and onions!
That’ll do, Ned.
Life is too short.
He took off his silk hat and, blowing out impatiently his bushy moustache, welshcombed his hair with raking fingers.
Ned Lambert tossed the newspaper aside, chuckling with delight.
An instant after a hoarse bark of laughter burst over professor MacHugh’s unshaven black- spectacled face.
—Doughy Daw!
he cried.
WHAT WETHERUP SAID   All very fine to jeer at it now in cold print but it goes down like hot cake that stuff.
He was in the bakery line too wasn’t he?
Why they call him Doughy Daw.
Feathered his nest well anyhow.
Daughter engaged to that chap in the inland revenue office with the motor.
Hooked that nicely.
Entertainments open house.
Big blow out.
Wetherup always said that.
Get a grip of them by the stomach.
The inner door was opened violently and a scarlet beaked face, crested by a comb of feathery hair, thrust itself in.
The bold blue eyes stared about them and the harsh voice asked:  —What is it?
—And here comes the sham squire himself, professor MacHugh said grandly.
—Getououthat, you bloody old pedagogue!
the editor said in recognition.
—Come, Ned, Mr Dedalus said, putting on his hat.
I must get a drink after that.
—Drink!
the editor cried.
No drinks served before mass.
—Quite right too, Mr Dedalus said, going out.
Come on, Ned.
Ned Lambert sidled down from the table.
The editor’s blue eyes roved towards Mr Bloom’s face, shadowed by a smile.
—Will you join us, Myles?
Ned Lambert asked.
MEMORABLE BATTLES RECALLED   —North Cork militia!
the editor cried, striding to the mantelpiece.
We won every time!
North Cork and Spanish officers!
—Where was that, Myles?
Ned Lambert asked with a reflective glance at his toecaps.
—In Ohio!
the editor shouted.
—So it was, begad, Ned Lambert agreed.
Passing out, he whispered to J. J. O’Molloy:  —Incipient jigs.
Sad case.
—Ohio!
the editor crowed in high treble from bis uplifted scarlet face.
My Ohio!
—A Perfect cretic!
the professor said.
Long, short and long.
O, HARP EOLIAN   He took a reel of dental floss from his waistcoat pocket and, breaking off a piece, twanged it smartly between two and two of his resonant unwashed teeth.
—Bingbang, bangbang.
Mr Bloom, seeing the coast clear, made for the inner door.
—Just a moment, Mr Crawford, he said.
I just want to phone about an ad.
He went in.
—What about that leader this evening?
professor MacHugh asked, coming to the editor and laying a firm hand on his shoulder.
—That’ll be all right, Myles Crawford said more calmly.
Never you fret.
Hello, Jack.
That’s all right.
—Good day, Myles, J. J. O’Molloy said, letting the pages he held slip limply back on the file.
Is that Canada swindle case on today?
The telephone whirred inside.
—Twenty eight…No, twenty…Double four…Yes.
SPOT THE WINNER   Lenehan came out of the inner office with Sports tissues.
—Who wants a dead cert for the Gold cup?
he asked.
Sceptre with O. Madden up.
He tossed the tissues on to the table.
Screams of newsboys barefoot in the hall rushed near and the door was flung open.
—Hush, Lenehan said.
I hear feetstoops.
Professor MacHugh strode across the room and seized the cringing urchin by the collar as the others scampered out of the hall and down the steps.
The tissues rustled up in the draught, floated softly in the air blue scrawls and under the table came to earth.
—It wasn’t me, sir.
It was the big fellow shoved me, sir.
—Throw him out and shut the door, the editor said.
There’s a hurricane blowing.
Lenehan began to paw the tissues up from the floor, grunting as he stooped twice.
—Waiting for the racing special, sir, the newsboy said.
It was Pat Farrel shoved me, sir.
He pointed to two faces peering in round the door- frame.
—Him, sir.
—Out of this with you, professor MacHugh said  He hustled the boy out and banged the door to.
J. J. O’Molloy turned the files crackingly over, murmuring, seeking:  —Continued on page six, column four.
—Yes…Evening Telegraph here, Mr Bloom phoned from the inner office.
Is the boss…?
Yes, Telegraph…To where?…Aha!
Which auction rooms?…Aha!
I see…Right.
I’ll catch him.
A COLLISION ENSUES   The bell whirred again as he rang off.
He came in quickly and bumped against Lenehan who was strug- gling up with the second tissue.
—Pardon, monsieur, Lenehan said, clutching him for an instant and making a grimace.
—My fault, Mr Bloom said, suffering his grip.
Are you hurt?
I’m in a hurry.
—Knee, Lenehan said.
He made a comic face and whined, rubbing his knee.
—The accumulation of the anno Domini.
—Sorry, Mr Bloom said.
He went to the door and, holding it ajar, paused.
J. J. O’Molloy slapped the heavy pages over.
The noise of two shrill voices, a mouthorgan, echoed in the bare hallway from the newsboys squatted in the doorsteps:  We are the boys of Wexford  Who fought zoith heart and hand.
EXIT BLOOM   —I’m just running round to Bachelor’s walk, Mr Bloom said, about this ad of Keyes’s.
Want to fix it up.
They tell me he’s round there in Dillon’s.
He looked indecisively for a moment at their faces.
The editor who, leaning against the mantelshelf, had propped his head on his hand suddenly stretched forth an arm amply.
—Begone!
he said.
The world is before you.
—Back in no time, Mr Bloom said, hurrying out.
J. J. O’Molloy took the tissues from Lenehan’s hand and read them, blowing them apart gently, without comment.
—He’ll get that advertisement, the professor said, staring through his blackrimmed spectacles over the crossblind.
Look at the young scamps after him.
—Show!
Where?
Lenehan cried, running to the window.
A STREET CORTEGE   Both smiled over the crossblind at the file of capering newsboys in Mr Bloom’s wake, the last zigzagging white on the breeze a mocking kite, a tail of white bowknots.
—Look at the young guttersnipe behind him hue and cry, Lenehan said, and you’ll kick.
O, my rib risible!
Taking off his flat spaugs and the walk.
Small nines.
Steal upon larks.
He began to mazurka in swift caricature across the floor on sliding feet past the fireplace to J. J. O’Molloy who placed the tissues in his receiving hands.
—What’s that?
Myles Crawford said with a start.
Where are the other two gone?
—Who?
the professor said, turning.
They’re gone round to the Oval for a drink.
Paddy Hooper is there with Jack Hall.
Came over last night.
—Come on then, Myles Crawford said.
Where’s my hat?
He walked jerkily into the office behind, parting the vent of his jacket, jingling his keys in his back pocket.
They jingled then in the air and against the wood as he locked his desk drawer.
—He’s pretty well on, professor MacHugh said in a low voice.
—Seems to be, J. J. O’Molloy said, taking out a cigarette case in murmuring meditation, but it is not always as it seems.
Who has the most matches?
THE CALUMET OF PEACE  He offered a cigarette to the professor and took one himself.
Lenehan promptly struck a match for them and lit their cigarettes in turn.
J. J. O’Molloy opened his case again and offered it.
—Thariky vous, Lenehan said, helping himself.
The editor came from the inner office, a straw hat awry on his brow.
He declaimed in song, pointing sternly at professor MacHugh:  ’Twos rank and fame that tempted thee,  ‘Twos empire charmed thy heart.
The professor grinned, locking his long lips.
—Eh?
You bloody old Roman empire?
Myles Crawford said.
He took a cigarette from the open case.
Lenehan, lighting it for him with quick grace, said:  —Silence for my brandnew riddle!
—Imperium romanum, J. J. O’Molloy said gently.
It sounds nobler than British or Brixton.
The word reminds one somehow of fat in the fire.
Myles Crawford blew his first puff violently towards the ceiling.
—That’s it, he said.
We are the fat.
You and I are the fat in the fire.
We haven’t got the chance of a snowball in hell.
THE GRANDEUR THAT WAS ROME   —Wait a moment, professor MacHugh said, raising two quiet claws.
We mustn’t be led away by words, by sounds of words.
We think of Rome, imperial, imperious, imperative.
He extended elocutionary arms from frayed stained shirtcuffs, pausing:  —What was their civilisation?
Vast, I allow: but vile.
Cloacae: sewers.
The Jews in the wilderness and on the mountaintop said: It is meet to be here.
Let us build an altar to Jehovah.
The Roman, like the Englishman who follows in his footsteps, brought to every new shore on which he set his foot (on our shore he never set it) only his cloacal obsession.
He gazed about him in his toga and he said: It is meet to be here.
Let us construct a water- closet.
—Which they accordingly did do, Lenehan said.
Our old ancient ancestors, as we read in the first chapter of Guinness’s, were partial to the running stream.
—They were nature’s gentlemen, J. J. O’Molloy murmured.
But we have also Roman law.
—And Pontius Pilate is its prophet, professor Mac- Hugh responded.
—Do you know that story about chief Baron Panes?
J. J. O’Molloy asked.
It was at the royal university dinner.
Everything was going swimmingly…  —First my riddle, Lenehan said.
Are you ready?
Mr O’Madden Burke, tall in copious grey of Donegal tweed, came in from the hallway.
Stephen Dedalus, behind him, uncovered as he entered.
—Entrez, mes enfants !
Lenehan cried.
—I escort a suppliant, Mr O’Madden Burke said melodiously.
Youth led by Experience visits Notoriety.
—How do you do?
the editor said, holding out a hand.
Come in.
Your governor is just gone.
Lenehan said to all:  —Silence!
What opera resembles a railway line?
Reflect, ponder, excogitate, reply.
Stephen handed over the typed sheets, pointing to the title and signature.
—Who?
the editor asked.
Bit torn off.
—Mr Garrett Deasy, Stephen said.
—That old pelters, the editor said.
Who tore it?
Was he short taken.
On swift sail flaming  From storm and south  He comes, pale vampire,  Mouth to my mouth.
—Good day, Stephen, the professor said, coming to peer over their shoulders.
Foot and mouth?Are you turned…?
Bullockbefriending bard.
SHINDY IN WELLKNOWN RESTAURANT   —Good day, sir, Stephen answered, blushing.
The letter is not mine.
Mr Garrett Deasy asked me to…  —O, I know him, Myles Crawford said, and knew his wife too.
The bloodiest old tartar God ever made.
By Jesus, she had the foot and mouth disease and no mistake!
The night she threw the soup in the waiter’s face in the Star and Garter.
Oho!
A woman brought sin into the world.
For Helen, the runaway wife of Menelaus, ten years the Greeks.
O’Rourke, prince of Breffhi.
—Is he a widower?
Stephen asked.
—Ay, a grass one, Myles Crawford said, his eye running down the typescript.
Emperor’s horses.
Habs- burg.
An Irishman saved his life on the ramparts of Vienna.
Don’t you forget!
Maximilian Karl O’Donnell, graf von Tirconnel in Ireland.
Sent his heir over to make the king an Austrian neldmarshal now.
Going to be trouble there one day.
Wild geese.
O yes, every time.
Don’t you forget that!
—The moot point is did he forget it?
J. J. O’Molloy said quietly, turning a horseshoe paperweight.
Saving princes is a thank you job.
Professor MacHugh turned on him.
—And if not?
he said.
—I’ll tell you how it was, Myles Crawford began.
Hungarian it was one day…      LOST CAUSES   NOBLE MARQUESS MENTIONED   —We were always loyal to lost causes, the professor said.
Success for us is the death of the intellect and of the imagination.
We were never loyal to the successful.
We serve them.
I teach the blatant Latin language.
I speak the tongue of a race the acme of whose mentality is the maxim: time is money.
Material domination.
Dominus!
Lord!
Where is the spirituality?
Lord Jesus!
Lord Salisbury.
A sofa in a westend club.
But the Greek!
KYRIE ELEISON!
A smile of light brightened his darkrimmed eyes, lengthened his long lips.
—The Greek!
he said again.
Kyrios!
Shining word!
The vowels the Semite and the Saxon know not.
Kyrie !
The radiance of the intellect.
I ought to profess Greek, the language of the mind.
Kyrie eleison I The closet- maker and the cloacamaker will never be lords of our spirit.
We are liege subjects of the catholic chivalry of Europe that foundered at Trafalgar and of the empire of the spirit, not an imperium, that went under with the Athenian fleets at iEgospotami.
Yes, yes.
They went under.
Pyrrhus, misled by an oracle, made a last attempt to retrieve the fortunes of Greece.
Loyal to a lost cause.
He strode away from them towards the window.
—They went forth to battle, Mr O’Madden Burke said greyly, but they always fell.
—Boohoo!
Lenehan wept with a little noise.
Owing toa brick received in the latter half of the matinee.
Poor, poor, poor Pyrrhus!
He whispered then near Stephen’s ear:  LENEHAN’S LIMERICK  There’s a ponderous pundit MacHugh  Who wears goggles of ebony hue.
As he mostly sees double  To wear them why trouble?
I can’t see the Joe Miller.
Can you?
In mourning for Sallust, Mulligan says.
Whose mother is beastly dead.
Myles Crawford crammed the sheets into a sidepocket.
—That’ll be all right, he said.
I’ll read the rest after.
That’ll be all right.
Lenehan extended his hands in protest.
—But my riddle!
he said.
What opera is like a railway line?
—Opera?
Mr O’Madden Burke’s sphinx face reriddled.
Lenehan announced gladly:  —The Rose of Castille.
See the wheeze?
Rows of cast steel.
Gee!
He poked Mr O’Madden Burke mildly in the spleen.
Mr O’Madden Burke fell back with grace on his umbrella, feigning a gasp.
—Help!
he sighed.
I feel a strong weakness.
Lenehan, rising to tiptoe, fanned his face rapidly with the rustling tissues.
The professor, returning by way of the files, swept his hand across Stephen’s and Mr O’Madden Burke’s loose ties.
—Paris, past and present, he said.
You look like communards.
—Like fellows who had blown up the bastille, J. J.  O’Molloy said in quiet mockery.
Or was it you shot the lord lieutenant of Finland between you?
You look as though you had done the deed.
General Bobrikoff.
OMNIUM GATHERUM   —We were only thinking about it, Stephen said.
—All the talents, Myles Crawford said.
Law, the classics…  —The turf, Lenehan put in.
—Literature, the press.
—If Bloom were here, the professor said.
The gentle art of advertisement.
—And Madam Bloom, Mr O’Madden Burke added.
The vocal muse.
Dublin’s prime favourite.
Lenehan gave a loud cough.
—Ahem!
he said very softly.
O, for a fresh of breath air!
I caught a cold in the park.
The gate was open.
YOU CAN DO IT!
The editor laid a nervous hand on Stephen’s shoulder.
—I want you to write something for me, he said.
Something with a bite in it.
You can do it.
I see it in your face.
In the lexicon of youth…  See it in your face.
See it in your eye.
Lazy idle little schemer.
—Foot and mouth disease!
the editor cried in scornful invective.
Great nationalist meeting in Borris-in-Ossory.
All balls!
Bulldosing the public!
Give them something with a bite in it.
Put us all into it, damn its soul.
Father Son and Holy Ghost and Jakes M‘Carthy.
—We can all supply mental pabulum, Mr O’Madden Burke said.
Stephen raised his eyes to the bold unheeding stare.
—He wants you for the pressgang, J. J. O’Molloy said.
THE GREAT GALLAHER   —You can do it, Myles Crawford repeated, clenching his hand in emphasis.
Wait a minute.
We’ll paralyse Europe as Ignatius Gallaher used to say when he was on the shaughraun, doing bilHardmarking in the Clarence.
Gallaher, that was a pressman for you.
