The snow, the burst pipe, the tin  bath, the Chinese goose — these are signs  swung high aloft upon which, looking back, I  read the character of each love; how each was  different.
‘You meanwhile — for I want to diminish  your hostility, your green eyes fixed on mine,  and your shabby dress, your rough hands, and  all the other emblems of your maternal  splendour — have stuck like a limpet to the  same rock.
Yet it is true, I do not want to hurt  you; only to refresh and furbish up my own  belief in myself that failed at your entry.
Change is no longer possible.
We are  committed.
Before, when we met in a  restaurant in London with Percival, all  simmered and shook; we could have been  anything.
We have chosen now, or sometimes it  seems the choice was made for us — a pair of  tongs pinched us between the shoulders.
I  chose.
I took the print of life not outwardly, but  inwardly upon the raw, the white, the  unprotected fibre.
I am clouded and bruised  with the print of minds and faces and things so  subtle that they have smell, colour, texture,  substance, but no name.
I am merely “Neville”  to you, who see the narrow limits of my life and  the line it cannot pass.
But to myself I am  immeasurable; a net whose fibres pass  imperceptibly beneath the world.
My net is  almost indistinguishable from that which it  surrounds.
It lifts whales — huge leviathans  and white jellies, what is amorphous and  wandering; I detect, I perceive.
Beneath my  eyes opens — a book; I see to the bottom; the  heart — I see to the depths.
I know what loves  are trembling into fire; how jealousy shoots its  green flashes hither and thither; how  intricately love crosses love; love makes knots;  love brutally tears them apart.
I have been  knotted; I have been torn apart.
‘But there was another glory once, when  we watched for the door to open, and Percival  came; when we flung ourselves unattached on  the edge of a hard bench in a public room.’  ‘There was the beech wood,’ said Susan,  ‘Elvedon, and the gilt hands of the clock  sparkling among the trees.
The pigeons broke  the leaves.
The changing travelling lights  wandered over me.
They escaped me.
Yet look,  Neville, whom I discredit in order to be myself,  at my hand on the table.
Look at the gradations  of healthy colour here on the knuckles, here on  the palm.
My body has been used daily, rightly,  like a tool by a good workman, all over.
The  blade is clean, sharp, worn in the centre.
(We  battle together like beasts fighting in a field,  like stags making their horns clash.)
Seen  through your pale and yielding flesh, even  apples and bunches of fruit must have a filmed  look as if they stood under glass.
Lying deep in  a chair with one person, one person only, but  one person who changes, you see one inch of  flesh only; its nerves, fibres, the sullen or quick  flow of blood on it; but nothing entire.
You do  not see a house in a garden; a horse in a field; a  town laid out, as you bend like an old woman  straining her eyes over her darning.
But I have  seen life in blocks, substantial, huge; its  battlements  and  towers,  factories  and  gasometers; a dwelling-place made from time  immemorial after an hereditary pattern.
These  things remain square, prominent, undissolved  in my mind.
I am not sinuous or suave; I sit  among you abrading your softness with my  hardness, quenching the silver-grey flickering  moth-wing quiver of words with the green  spurt of my clear eyes.
‘Now we have clashed our antlers.
This is  the necessary prelude; the salute of old friends.’  ‘The gold has faded between the trees,’ said  Rhoda, ‘and a slice of green lies behind them,  elongated like the blade of a knife seen in  dreams, or some tapering island on which  nobody sets foot.
Now the cars begin to wink  and flicker, coming down the avenue.
Lovers  can draw into the darkness now; the boles of  the trees are swollen, are obscene with lovers.’  ‘It was different once,’ said Bernard.
‘Once  we could break the current as we chose.
How  many telephone calls, how many post cards, are  now needed to cut this hole through which we  come together, united, at Hampton Court?
How  swift life runs from January to December!
We  are all swept on by the torrent of things grown  so familiar that they cast no shade; we make no  comparisons; think scarcely ever of I or of you;  and in this unconsciousness attain the utmost  freedom from friction and part the weeds that  grow over the mouths of sunken channels.
We  have to leap like fish, high in the air, in order to  catch the train from Waterloo.
And however  high we leap we fall back again into the stream.
I shall never now take ship for the South Sea  Islands.
A journey to Rome is the limit of my  travelling.
I have sons and daughters.
I am  wedged into my place in the puzzle.
‘But it is only my body — this elderly man  here whom you call Bernard — that is fixed  irrevocably — so I desire to believe.
I think  more disinterestedly than I could when I was  young and must dig furiously like a child  rummaging in a bran-pie to discover my self.
“Look, what is this?
And this?
Is this going to  be a fine present?
Is that all?” and so on.
Now I  know what the parcels hold; and do not care  much.
I throw my mind out in the air as a man  throws seeds in great fan-flights, falling  through the purple sunset, falling on the  pressed and shining ploughland which is bare.
‘A phrase.
An imperfect phrase.
And what  are phrases?
They have left me very little to lay  on the table, beside Susan’s hand; to take from  my pocket, with Neville’s credentials.
I am not  an authority on law, or medicine, or finance.
I  am wrapped round with phrases, like damp  straw; I glow, phosphorescent.
And each of you  feels when I speak, “I am lit up.
I am glowing.”  The little boys used to feel “That’s a good one,  that’s a good one”, as the phrases bubbled up  from my lips under the elm trees in the  playing-fields.
They too bubbled up; they also  escaped with my phrases.
But I pine in solitude.
Solitude is my undoing.
‘I pass from house to house like the friars  in the Middle Ages who cozened the wives and  girls with beads and ballads.
I am a traveller, a  pedlar, paying for my lodging with a ballad; I  am an indiscriminate, an easily pleased guest;  often putting up in the best room in a four-  poster; then lying in a barn on a haystack.
I  don’t mind the fleas and find no fault with silk  either.
I am very tolerant.
I am not a moralist.
I  have too great a sense of the shortness of life  and its temptations to rule red lines.
Yet I am  not so indiscriminate as you think, judging me  — as you judge me — from my fluency.
I have a  little dagger of contempt and severity hidden up  my sleeve.
But I am apt to be deflected.
I make  stories.
I twist up toys out of anything.
A girl  sits at a cottage door; she is waiting; for whom?
Seduced, or not seduced?
The headmaster sees  the hole in the carpet.
He sighs.
His wife,  drawing her fingers through the waves of her  still abundant hair, reflects — et cetera.
Waves  of hands, hesitations at street corners, someone  dropping a cigarette into the gutter — all are  stories.
But which is the true story?
That I do  not know.
Hence I keep my phrases hung like  clothes in a cupboard, waiting for someone to  wear them.
Thus waiting, thus speculating,  making this note and then another, I do not  cling to life.
I shall be brushed like a bee from a  sunflower.
My  philosophy,  always  accumulating, welling up moment by moment,  runs like quicksilver a dozen ways at once.
But  Louis, wild-eyed but severe, in his attic, in his  office, has formed unalterable conclusions  upon the true nature of what is to be known.’  ‘It breaks,’ said Louis, ‘the thread I try to  spin; your laughter breaks it, your indifference,  also your beauty.
Jinny broke the thread when  she kissed me in the garden years ago.
The  boasting boys mocked me at school for my  Australian accent and broke it.
“This is the  meaning,” I say; and then start with a pang —  vanity.
“Listen,” I say, “to the nightingale, who  sings among the trampling feet; the conquests  and migrations.
Believe —” and then am  twitched asunder.
Over broken tiles and  splinters of glass I pick my way.
Different lights  fall, making the ordinary leopard spotted and  strange.
This moment of reconciliation, when  we meet together united, this evening moment,  with its wine and shaking leaves, and youth  coming up from the river in white flannels,  carrying cushions, is to me black with the  shadows of dungeons and the tortures and  infamies practised by man upon man.
So  imperfect are my senses that they never blot  out with one purple the serious charge that my  reason adds and adds against us, even as we sit  here.
What is the solution, I ask myself, and the  bridge?
How can I reduce these dazzling, these  dancing apparitions to one line capable of  linking all in one?
So I ponder; and you  meanwhile observe maliciously my pursed lips,  my sallow cheeks and my invariable frown.
‘But I beg you also to notice my cane and  my waistcoat.
I have inherited a desk of solid  mahogany in a room hung with maps.
Our  steamers have won an enviable reputation for  their cabins replete with luxury.
We supply  swimming-baths and gymnasiums.
I wear a  white waistcoat now and consult a little book  before I make an engagement.
‘This is the arch and ironical manner in  which I hope to distract you from my shivering,  my  tender,  and  infinitely  young  and  unprotected soul.
For I am always the  youngest; the most naïvely surprised; the one  who runs in advance in apprehension and  sympathy with discomfort or ridicule — should  there be a smut on a nose, or a button undone.
I suffer for all humiliations.
Yet I am also  ruthless, marmoreal.
I do not see how you can  say that it is fortunate to have lived.
Your little  excitements, your childish transports, when a  kettle boils, when the soft air lifts Jinny’s  spotted scarf and it floats web-like, are to me  like silk streamers thrown in the eyes of the  charging bull.
I condemn you.
Yet my heart  yearns towards you.
I would go with you  through the fires of death.
Yet am happiest  alone.
I luxuriate in gold and purple vestments.
Yet I prefer a view over chimneypots; cats  scraping their mangy sides upon blistered  chimney-stacks; broken windows; and the  hoarse clangour of bells from the steeple of  some brick chapel.’  ‘I see what is before me,’ said Jinny.
‘This  scarf, these wine- coloured spots.
This glass.
This mustard pot.
This flower.
I like what one  touches, what one tastes.
I like rain when it has  turned to snow and become palatable.
And  being rash, and much more courageous than  you are, I do not temper my beauty with  meanness lest it should scorch me.
I gulp it  down entire.
It is made of flesh; it is made of  stuff.
My imagination is the body’s.
Its visions  are not fine-spun and white with purity like  Louis’.
I do not like your lean cats and your  blistered chimney-pots.
The scrannel beauties  of your roof-tops repel me.
Men and women, in  uniforms, wigs and gowns, bowler hats and  tennis shirts beautifully open at the neck, the  infinite variety of women’s dresses (I note all  clothes always) delight me.
I eddy with them, in  and out, in and out, into rooms, into halls, here,  there, everywhere, wherever they go.
This man  lifts the hoof of a horse.
This man shoves in  and out the drawers of his private collection.
I  am never alone.
I am attended by a regiment of  my fellows.
My mother must have followed the  drum, my father the sea.
I am like a little dog  that trots down the road after the regimental  band, but stops to snuff a tree-trunk, to sniff  some brown stain, and suddenly careers across  the street after some mongrel cur and then  holds one paw up while it sniffs an entrancing  whiff of meat from the butcher’s shop.
My  traffics have led me into strange places.
Men,  how many, have broken from the wall and  come to me.
I have only to hold my hand up.
Straight as a dart they have come to the place of  assignation — perhaps a chair on a balcony,  perhaps a shop at a street corner.
The torments,  the divisions of your lives have been solved for  me night after night, sometimes only by the  touch of a finger under the table-cloth as we sat  dining — so fluid has my body become, forming  even at the touch of a finger into one full drop,  which fills itself, which quivers, which flashes,  which falls in ecstasy.
‘I have sat before a looking-glass as you sit  writing, adding up figures at desks.
So, before  the looking-glass in the temple of my bedroom,  I have judged my nose and my chin; my lips  that open too wide and show too much gum.
I  have looked.
I have noted.
I have chosen what  yellow or white, what shine or dullness, what  loop or straightness suits.
I am volatile for one,  rigid for another, angular as an icicle in silver,  or voluptuous as a candle flame in gold.
I have  run violently like a whip flung out to the  extreme end of my tether.
His shirt front, there  in the corner, has been white; then purple;  smoke and flame have wrapped us about; after  a furious conflagration — yet we scarcely raised  our voices, sitting on the hearth-rug, as we  murmured all the secrets of our hearts as into  shells so that nobody might hear in the  sleeping-house, but I heard the cook stir once,  and once we thought the ticking of the clock  was a footfall — we have sunk to ashes, leaving  no relics, no unburnt bones, no wisps of hair to  be kept in lockets such as your intimacies leave  behind them.
Now I turn grey; now I turn  gaunt; but I look at my face at midday sitting in  front of the looking- glass in broad daylight,  and note precisely my nose, my chin, my lips  that open too wide and show too much gum.
But I am not afraid.’  ‘There were lamp-posts,’ said Rhoda, ‘and  trees that had not yet shed their leaves on the  way from the station.
The leaves might have  hidden me still.
But I did not hide behind them.
I walked straight up to you instead of circling  round to avoid the shock of sensation as I used.
But it is only that I have taught my body to do a  certain trick.
Inwardly I am not taught; I fear, I  hate, I love, I envy and despise you, but I never  join you happily.
Coming up from the station,  refusing to accept the shadow of the trees and  the pillar-boxes, I perceived, from your coats  and umbrellas, even at a distance, how you  stand embedded in a substance made of  repeated  moments  run  together;  are  committed, have an attitude, with children,  authority, fame, love, society; where I have  nothing.
I have no face.
‘Here in this dining-room you see the  antlers and the tumblers; the salt-cellars; the  yellow stains on the tablecloth.
“Waiter!” says  Bernard.
“Bread!” says Susan.
And the waiter  comes; he brings bread.
But I see the side of a  cup like a mountain and only parts of antlers,  and the brightness on the side of that jug like a  crack in darkness with wonder and terror.
Your  voices sound like trees creaking in a forest.
So  with your faces and their prominences and  hollows.
How beautiful, standing at a distance  immobile at midnight against the railings of  some square!
Behind you is a white crescent of  foam, and fishermen on the verge of the world  are drawing in nets and casting them.
A wind  ruffles the topmost leaves of primeval trees.
(Yet here we sit at Hampton Court.)
Parrots  shrieking break the intense stillness of the  jungle.
(Here the trams start.)
The swallow dips  her wings in midnight pools.
(Here we talk.)
That is the circumference that I try to grasp as  we sit together.
Thus I must undergo the  penance of Hampton Court at seven thirty  precisely.
‘But since these rolls of bread and wine  bottles are needed by me, and your faces with  their hollows and prominences are beautiful,  and the table-cloth and its yellow stain, far  from being allowed to spread in wider and  wider circles of understanding that may at last  (so I dream, falling off the edge of the earth at  night when my bed floats suspended) embrace  the entire world, I must go through the antics  of the individual.
I must start when you pluck  at me with your children, your poems, your  chilblains or whatever it is that you do and  suffer.
But I am not deluded.
After all these  callings hither and thither, these pluckings and  searchings, I shall fall alone through this thin  sheet into gulfs of fire.
And you will not help  me.
More cruel than the old torturers, you will  let me fall, and will tear me to pieces when I am  fallen.
Yet there are moments when the walls of  the mind grow thin; when nothing is  unabsorbed, and I could fancy that we might  blow so vast a bubble that the sun might set  and rise in it and we might take the blue of  midday and the black of midnight and be cast  off and escape from here and now.’  ‘Drop upon drop,’ said Bernard, ‘silence  falls.
It forms on the roof of the mind and falls  into pools beneath.
For ever alone, alone, alone  — hear silence fall and sweep its rings to the  farthest edges.
Gorged and replete, solid with  middle-aged content, I, whom loneliness  destroys, let silence fall, drop by drop.
‘But now silence falling pits my face,  wastes my nose like a snowman stood out in a  yard in the rain.
As silence falls I am dissolved  utterly and become featureless and scarcely to  be distinguished from another.
It does not  matter.
What matters?
We have dined well.
The  fish, the veal cutlets, the wine have blunted the  sharp tooth of egotism.
Anxiety is at rest.
The  vainest of us, Louis perhaps, does not care what  people think.
Neville’s tortures are at rest.
Let  others prosper — that is what he thinks.
Susan  hears the breathing of all her children safe  asleep.
Sleep, sleep, she murmurs.
Rhoda has  rocked her ships to shore.
Whether they have  foundered, whether they have anchored, she  cares no longer.
We are ready to consider any  suggestion that the world may offer quite  impartially.
I reflect now that the earth is only a  pebble flicked off accidentally from the face of  the sun and that there is no life anywhere in  the abysses of space.’  ‘In this silence,’ said Susan, ‘it seems as if  no leaf would ever fall, or bird fly.’  ‘As if the miracle had happened,’ said  Jinny, ‘and life were stayed here and now.’  ‘And,’ said Rhoda, ‘we had no more to live.’  ‘But listen,’ said Louis, ‘to the world  moving through abysses of infinite space.
It  roars; the lighted strip of history is past and our  Kings and Queens; we are gone; our  civilization; the Nile; and all life.
Our separate  drops are dissolved; we are extinct, lost in the  abysses of time, in the darkness.’  ‘Silence falls; silence falls,’ said Bernard.
‘But now listen; tick, tick; hoot, hoot; the world  has hailed us back to it.
I heard for one  moment the howling winds of darkness as we  passed beyond life.
Then tick, tick (the clock);  then hoot, hoot (the cars).
We are landed; we  are on shore; we are sitting, six of us, at a table.
It is the memory of my nose that recalls me.
I  rise; “Fight,” I cry, “fight!” remembering the  shape of my own nose, and strike with this  spoon upon this table pugnaciously.’  ‘Oppose ourselves to this illimitable chaos,’  said Neville, ‘this formless imbecility.
Making  love to a nursemaid behind a tree, that soldier  is more admirable than all the stars.
Yet  sometimes one trembling star comes in the  clear sky and makes me think the world  beautiful and we maggots deforming even the  trees with our lust.’  (‘Yet, Louis,’ said Rhoda, ‘how short a time  silence lasts.
Already they are beginning to  smooth their napkins by the side of their plates.
“Who comes?” says Jinny; and Neville sighs,  remembering that Percival comes no more.
Jinny has taken out her looking-glass.
Surveying her face like an artist, she draws a  powder-puff down her nose, and after one  moment of deliberation has given precisely that  red to the lips that the lips need.
Susan, who  feels scorn and fear at the sight of these  preparations, fastens the top button of her coat,  and unfastens it.
What is she making ready for?
For something, but something different.’  ‘They are saying to themselves,’ said Louis,  ‘“It is time.
I am still vigorous,” they are saying.
“My face shall be cut against the black of  infinite space.” They do not finish their  sentences.
“It is time,” they keep saying.
“The  gardens will be shut.” And going with them,  Rhoda, swept into their current, we shall  perhaps drop a little behind.’  ‘Like conspirators who have something to  whisper,’ said Rhoda.)
‘It is true, and I know for a fact,’ said  Bernard, ‘as we walk down this avenue, that a  King, riding, fell over a molehill here.
But how  strange it seems to set against the whirling  abysses of infinite space a little figure with a  golden teapot on his head.
Soon one recovers  belief in figures: but not at once in what they  put on their heads.
Our English past — one inch  of light.
Then people put teapots on their heads  and say, “I am a King!” No, I try to recover, as  we walk, the sense of time, but with that  streaming darkness in my eyes I have lost my  grip.
This Palace seems light as a cloud set for a  moment on the sky.
It is a trick of the mind —  to put Kings on their thrones, one following  another, with crowns on their heads.
And we  ourselves, walking six abreast, what do we  oppose, with this random flicker of light in us  that we call brain and feeling, how can we do  battle against this flood; what has permanence?
Our lives too stream away, down the unlighted  avenues, past the strip of time, unidentified.
Once Neville threw a poem at my head.
Feeling  a sudden conviction of immortality, I said, “I  too know what Shakespeare knew.” But that  has gone.’  ‘Unreasonably, ridiculously,’ said Neville,  ‘as we walk, time comes back.
A dog does it,  prancing.
The machine works.
Age makes hoary  that gateway.
Three hundred years now seem  no more than a moment vanished against that  dog.
King William mounts his horse wearing a  wig, and the court ladies sweep the turf with  their embroidered panniers.
I am beginning to  be convinced, as we walk, that the fate of  Europe is of immense importance, and,  ridiculous as it still seems, that all depends  upon the battle of Blenheim.
Yes; I declare, as  we pass through this gateway, it is the present  moment; I am become a subject of King  George.’  ‘While we advance down this avenue,’ said  Louis, ‘I leaning slightly upon Jinny, Bernard  arm-in-arm with Neville, and Susan with her  hand in mine, it is difficult not to weep, calling  ourselves little children, praying that God may  keep us safe while we sleep.
It is sweet to sing  together, clasping hands, afraid of the dark,  while Miss Curry plays the harmonium.’  ‘The iron gates have rolled back,’ said  Jinny.
‘Time’s fangs have ceased their  devouring.
We have triumphed over the  abysses of space, with rouge, with powder, with  flimsy pocket-handkerchiefs.’  ‘I grasp, I hold fast,’ said Susan.
‘I hold  firmly to this hand, anyone’s, with love, with  hatred; it does not matter which.’  ‘The still mood, the disembodied mood is  on us,’ said Rhoda, ‘and we enjoy this  momentary alleviation (it is not often that one  has no anxiety) when the walls of the mind  become transparent.
Wren’s palace, like the  quartet played to the dry and stranded people in  the stalls, makes an oblong.
A square is stood  upon the oblong and we say, “This is our  dwelling-place.
The structure is now visible.
Very little is left outside.”’  ‘The flower,’ said Bernard, ‘the red  carnation that stood in the vase on the table of  the restaurant when we dined together with  Percival, is become a six-sided flower; made of  six lives.’  ‘A mysterious illumination,’ said Louis,  ‘visible against those yew trees.’  ‘Built up with much pain, many strokes,’  said Jinny.
‘Marriage, death, travel, friendship,’ said  Bernard; ‘town and country; children and all  that; a many-sided substance cut out of this  dark; a many-faceted flower.
Let us stop for a  moment; let us behold what we have made.
Let  it blaze against the yew trees.
One life.
There.
It  is over.
Gone out.’  ‘Now they vanish,’ said Louis.
‘Susan with  Bernard.
Neville with Jinny.
You and I, Rhoda,  stop for a moment by this stone urn.
What song  shall we hear now that these couples have  sought the groves, and Jinny, pointing with her  gloved hand, pretends to notice the water-lilies,  and Susan, who has always loved Bernard, says  to him, “My ruined life, my wasted life.” And  Neville, taking Jinny’s little hand, with the  cherry-coloured finger-nails, by the lake, by the  moonlit water, cries, “Love, love,” and she  answers, imitating the bird, “Love, love?” What  song do we hear?’  ‘They vanish, towards the lake,’ said  Rhoda.
‘They slink away over the grass  furtively, yet with assurance as if they asked of  our pity their ancient privilege — not to be  disturbed.
The tide in the soul, tipped, flows  that way; they cannot help deserting us.
The  dark has closed over their bodies.
What song do  we hear — the owl’s, the nightingale’s, the  wren’s?
The steamer hoots; the light on the  electric rails flashes; the trees gravely bow and  bend.
The flare hangs over London.
Here is an  old woman, quietly returning, and a man, a late  fisherman, comes down the terrace with his  rod.
Not a sound, not a movement must escape  us.’  ‘A bird flies homeward,’ said Louis.
‘Evening opens her eyes and gives one quick  glance among the bushes before she sleeps.
How shall we put it together, the confused and  composite message that they send back to us,  and not they only, but many dead, boys and  girls, grown men and women, who have  wandered here, under one king or another?’  ‘A weight has dropped into the night,’ said  Rhoda, ‘dragging it down.
Every tree is big with  a shadow that is not the shadow of the tree  behind it.
We hear a drumming on the roofs of  a fasting city when the Turks are hungry and  uncertain tempered.
We hear them crying with  sharp, stag-like barks, “Open, open.” Listen to  the trams squealing and to the flashes from the  electric rails.
We hear the beech trees and the  birch trees raise their branches as if the bride  had let her silken nightdress fall and come to  the doorway saying “Open, open”.’  ‘All seems alive,’ said Louis.
‘I cannot hear  death anywhere tonight.
Stupidity, on that  man’s face, age, on that woman’s, would be  strong enough, one would think, to resist the  incantation, and bring in death.
But where is  death tonight?
All the crudity, odds and ends,  this and that, have been crushed like glass  splinters into the blue, the red-fringed tide,  which, drawing into the shore, fertile with  innumerable fish, breaks at our feet.’  ‘If we could mount together, if we could  perceive from a sufficient height,’ said Rhoda,  ‘if we could remain untouched without any  support — but you, disturbed by faint clapping  sounds of praise and laughter, and I, resenting  compromise and right and wrong on human  lips, trust only in solitude and the violence of  death and thus are divided.’  ‘For ever,’ said Louis, ‘divided.
We have  sacrificed the embrace among the ferns, and  love, love, love by the lake, standing, like  conspirators who have drawn apart to share  some secret, by the urn.
But now look, as we  stand here, a ripple breaks on the horizon.
The  net is raised higher and higher.
It comes to the  top of the water.
The water is broken by silver,  by quivering little fish.
Now leaping, now  lashing, they are laid on shore.
Life tumbles its  catch upon the grass.
There are figures coming  towards us.
Are they men or are they women?
They still wear the ambiguous draperies of the  flowing tide in which they have been  immersed.’  ‘Now,’ said Rhoda, ‘as they pass that tree,  they regain their natural size.
They are only  men, only women.
Wonder and awe change as  they put off the draperies of the flowing tide.
Pity returns, as they emerge into the  moonlight, like the relics of an army, our  representatives, going every night (here or in  Greece) to battle, and coming back every night  with their wounds, their ravaged faces.
Now  light falls on them again.
They have faces.
They  become Susan and Bernard, Jinny and Neville,  people we know.
Now what a shrinkage takes  place!
Now what a shrivelling, what an  humiliation!
The old shivers run through me,  hatred and terror, as I feel myself grappled to  one spot by these hooks they cast on us; these  greetings, recognitions, pluckings of the finger  and searchings of the eyes.
Yet they have only  to speak, and their first words, with the  remembered tone and the perpetual deviation  from what one expects, and their hands moving  and making a thousand past days rise again in  the darkness, shake my purpose.’  ‘Something flickers and dances,’ said  Louis.
‘Illusion returns as they approach down  the avenue.
Rippling and questioning begin.
What do I think of you — what do you think of  me?
Who are you?
Who am I?
— that quivers  again its uneasy air over us, and the pulse  quickens and the eye brightens and all the  insanity of personal existence without which  life would fall flat and die, begins again.
They  are on us.
The southern sun flickers over this  urn; we push off in to the tide of the violent  and cruel sea.
Lord help us to act our parts as  we greet them returning — Susan and Bernard,  Neville and Jinny.’  ‘We have destroyed something by our  presence,’ said Bernard, ‘a world perhaps.’  ‘Yet we scarcely breathe,’ said Neville,  ‘spent as we are.
We are in that passive and  exhausted frame of mind when we only wish to  rejoin the body of our mother from whom we  have been severed.
All else is distasteful, forced  and fatiguing.
Jinny’s yellow scarf is moth-  coloured in this light; Susan’s eyes are  quenched.
We are scarcely to be distinguished  from the river.
One cigarette end is the only  point of emphasis among us.
And sadness  tinges our content, that we should have left  you, torn the fabric; yielded to the desire to  press out, alone, some bitterer, some blacker  juice, which was sweet too.
But now we are  worn out.’  ‘After our fire,’ said Jinny, ‘there is nothing  left to put in lockets.’  ‘Still I gape,’ said Susan, ‘like a young bird,  unsatisfied, for something that has escaped  me.’  ‘Let us stay for a moment,’ said Bernard,  ‘before we go.
Let us pace the terrace by the  river almost alone.
It is nearly bed-time.
People  have gone home.
Now how comforting it is to  watch the lights coming out in the bedrooms of  small shopkeepers on the other side of the  river.
There is one — there is another.
What do  you think their takings have been today?
Only  just enough to pay for the rent, for light and  food and the children’s clothing.
But just  enough.
What a sense of the tolerableness of  life the lights in the bedrooms of small  shopkeepers give us!
Saturday comes, and there  is just enough to pay perhaps for seats at the  Pictures.
Perhaps before they put out the light  they go into the little garden and look at the  giant rabbit couched in its wooden hut.
That is  the rabbit they will have for Sunday dinner.
Then they put out the light.
Then they sleep.
And for thousands of people sleep is nothing  but warmth and silence and one moment’s  sport with some fantastic dream.
“I have posted  my letter,” the greengrocer thinks, “to the  Sunday newspaper.
Suppose I win five hundred  pounds in the football competition?
And we  shall kill the rabbit.
Life is pleasant.
Life is  good.
I have posted the letter.
We shall kill the  rabbit.” And he sleeps.
‘That goes on.
Listen.
There is a sound like  the knocking of railway trucks in a siding.
That  is the happy concatenation of one event  following another in our lives.
Knock, knock,  knock.
Must, must, must.
Must go, must sleep,  must wake, must get up — sober, merciful word  which we pretend to revile, which we press  tight to our hearts, without which we should be  undone.
How we worship that sound like the  knocking together of trucks in a siding!
‘Now far off down the river I hear the  chorus; the song of the boasting boys, who are  coming back in large charabancs from a day’s  outing on the decks of crowded steamers.
Still  they are singing as they used to sing, across the  court, on winters’ nights, or with the windows  open in summer, getting drunk, breaking the  furniture, wearing little striped caps, all turning  their heads the same way as the brake rounded  the corner; and I wished to be with them.
‘What with the chorus, and the spinning  water and the just perceptible murmur of the  breeze we are slipping away.
Little bits of  ourselves are crumbling.
There!
Something  very important fell then.
I cannot keep myself  together.
I shall sleep.
But we must go; must  catch our train; must walk back to the station —  must, must, must.
We are only bodies jogging  along side by side.
I exist only in the soles of  my feet and in the tired muscles of my thighs.
We have been walking for hours it seems.
But  where?
I cannot remember.
I am like a log  slipping smoothly over some waterfall.
I am not  a judge.
I am not called upon to give my  opinion.
Houses and trees are all the same in  this grey light.
Is that a post?
Is that a woman  walking?
Here is the station, and if the train  were to cut me in two, I should come together  on the further side, being one, being indivisible.
But what is odd is that I still clasp the return  half of my ticket to Waterloo firmly between  the fingers of my right hand, even now, even  sleeping.’  Now the sun had sunk.
Sky and sea were  indistinguishable.
The waves breaking spread  their white fans far out over the shore, sent  white shadows into the recesses of sonorous  caves and then rolled back sighing over the  shingle.
The tree shook its branches and a  scattering of leaves fell to the ground.
There  they settled with perfect composure on the  precise  spot  where  they  would  await  dissolution.
Black and grey were shot into the  garden from the broken vessel that had once  held red light.
Dark shadows blackened the  tunnels between the stalks.
The thrush was  silent and the worm sucked itself back into its  narrow hole.
Now and again a whitened and  hollow straw was blown from an old nest and  fell into the dark grasses among the rotten  apples.
The light had faded from the tool-house  wall and the adder’s skin hung from the nail  empty.
All the colours in the room had  overflown their banks.
The precise brush stroke  was swollen and lop-sided; cupboards and  chairs melted their brown masses into one  huge obscurity.
The height from floor to ceiling  was hung with vast curtains of shaking  darkness.
The looking-glass was pale as the  mouth of a cave shadowed by hanging creepers.
The substance had gone from the solidity  of the hills.
Travelling lights drove a plumy  wedge among unseen and sunken roads, but no  lights opened among the folded wings of the  hills, and there was no sound save the cry of a  bird seeking some lonelier tree.
At the cliff’s  edge there was an equal murmur of air that had  been brushed through forests, of water that had  been cooled in a thousand glassy hollows of  mid-ocean.
As if there were waves of darkness in the  air, darkness moved on, covering houses, hills,  trees, as waves of water wash round the sides of  some sunken ship.
Darkness washed down  streets, eddying round single figures, engulfing  them; blotting out couples clasped under the  showery darkness of elm trees in full summer  foliage.
Darkness rolled its waves along grassy  rides and over the wrinkled skin of the turf,  enveloping the solitary thorn tree and the  empty snail shells at its foot.
Mounting higher,  darkness blew along the bare upland slopes,  and met the fretted and abraded pinnacles of  the mountain where the snow lodges for ever  on the hard rock even when the valleys are full  of running streams and yellow vine leaves, and  girls, sitting on verandahs, look up at the snow,  shading their faces with their fans.
Them, too,  darkness covered.
‘Now to sum up,’ said Bernard.
‘Now to explain  to you the meaning of my life.
Since we do not  know each other (though I met you once, I  think, on board a ship going to Africa), we can  talk freely.
The illusion is upon me that  something adheres for a moment, has  roundness, weight, depth, is completed.
This,  for the moment, seems to be my life.
If it were  possible, I would hand it to you entire.
I would  break it off as one breaks off a bunch of grapes.
I would say, “Take it.
This is my life.”  ‘But unfortunately, what I see (this globe,  full of figures) you do not see.
You see me,  sitting at a table opposite you, a rather heavy,  elderly man, grey at the temples.
You see me  take my napkin and unfold it.
