She who had refused  Percival lent herself to this, to this covering  over.
‘Sitting down on a bank to wait for my  train, I thought then how we surrender, how we  submit to the stupidity of nature.
Woods  covered in thick green leafage lay in front of  me.
And by some flick of a scent or a sound on  a nerve, the old image — the gardeners  sweeping, the lady writing — returned.
I saw  the figures beneath the beech trees at Elvedon.
The gardeners swept; the lady at the table sat  writing.
But I now made the contribution of  maturity to childhood’s intuitions — satiety and  doom; the sense of what is unescapable in our  lot; death; the knowledge of limitations; how  life is more obdurate than one had thought it.
Then, when I was a child, the presence of an  enemy had asserted itself; the need for  opposition had stung me.
I had jumped up and  cried, “Let’s explore.” The horror of the  situation was ended.
‘Now what situation was there to end?
Dullness and doom.
And what to explore?
The  leaves and the wood concealed nothing.
If a  bird rose I should no longer make a poem — I  should repeat what I had seen before.
Thus if I  had a stick with which to point to indentations  in the curve of being, this is the lowest; here it  coils useless on the mud where no tide comes  — here, where I sit with my back to a hedge,  and my hat over my eyes, while the sheep  advanced remorselessly in that wooden way of  theirs, step by step on stiff, pointed legs.
But if  you hold a blunt blade to a grindstone long  enough, something spurts — a jagged edge of  fire; so held to lack of reason, aimlessness, the  usual, all massed together, out spurted in one  flame hatred, contempt.
I took my mind, my  being, the old dejected, almost inanimate  object, and lashed it about among these odds  and ends, sticks and straws, detestable little  bits of wreckage, flotsam and jetsam, floating  on the oily surface.
I jumped up.
I said, “Fight!
Fight!” I repeated.
It is the effort and the  struggle, it is the perpetual warfare, it is the  shattering and piecing together — this is the  daily battle, defeat or victory, the absorbing  pursuit.
The trees, scattered, put on order; the  thick green of the leaves thinned itself to a  dancing light.
I netted them under with a  sudden phrase.
I retrieved them from  formlessness with words.
‘The train came in.
Lengthening down the  platform, the train came to a stop.
I caught my  train.
And so back to London in the evening.
How satisfactory, the atmosphere of common  sense and tobacco; old women clambering into  the third-class carriage with their baskets; the  sucking at pipes; the good-nights and see you  tomorrows of friends parting at wayside  stations, and then the lights of London — not  the flaring ecstasy of youth, not that tattered  violet banner, but still the lights of London all  the same; hard, electric lights, high up in  offices; street lamps laced along dry pavements;  flares roaring above street markets.
I like all  this when I have despatched the enemy for a  moment.
‘Also I like to find the pageant of existence  roaring, in a theatre for instance.
The clay-  coloured, earthy nondescript animal of the field  here erects himself and with infinite ingenuity  and effort puts up a fight against the green  woods and green fields and sheep advancing  with measured tread, munching.
And, of  course, windows in the long grey streets were  lit up; strips of carpet cut the pavement; there  were swept and garnished rooms, fire, food,  wine, talk.
Men with withered hands, women  with pearl pagodas hanging from their ears,  came in and went out.
I saw old men’s faces  carved into wrinkles and sneers by the work of  the world; beauty cherished so that it seemed  newly sprung even in age; and youth so apt for  pleasure that pleasure, one thought, must exist;  it seemed that grass-lands must roll for it; and  the sea be chopped up into little waves; and the  woods rustle with bright-coloured birds for  youth, for youth expectant.
There one met  Jinny and Hal, Tom and Betty; there we had  our jokes and shared our secrets; and never  parted in the doorway without arranging to  meet again in some other room as the occasion,  as the time of the year, suggested.
Life is  pleasant; life is good.
After Monday comes  Tuesday, and Wednesday follows.
‘Yes, but after a time with a difference.
It  may be that something in the look of the room  one night, in the arrangement of the chairs,  suggests it.
It seems comfortable to sink down  on a sofa in a corner, to look, to listen.
Then it  happens that two figures standing with their  backs to the window appear against the  branches of a spreading willow.
With a shock of  emotion one feels “There are figures without  features robed in beauty.” In the pause that  follows while the ripples spread, the girl to  whom one should be talking says to herself,  “He is old.” But she is wrong.
It is not age; it is  that a drop has fallen; another drop.
Time has  given the arrangement another shake.
Out we  creep from the arch of the currant leaves, out  into a wider world.
The true order of things —  this is our perpetual illusion — is now apparent.
Thus in a moment, in a drawing-room, our life  adjusts itself to the majestic march of day  across the sky.
‘It was for this reason that instead of  pulling on my patent- leather shoes and finding  a tolerable tie, I sought Neville.
I sought my  oldest friend, who had known me when I was  Byron; when I was Meredith’s young man, and  also that hero in a book by Dostoevsky whose  name I have forgotten.
I found him alone,  reading.
A perfectly neat table; a curtain pulled  methodically straight; a paper-knife dividing a  French volume — nobody, I thought, ever  changes the attitude in which we saw them  first, or the clothes.
Here he has sat in this  chair, in these clothes, ever since we first met.
Here was freedom; here was intimacy; the  firelight broke off some round apple on the  curtain.
There we talked; sat talking; sauntered  down that avenue, the avenue which runs  under the trees, under the thick-leaved  murmuring trees, the trees that are hung with  fruit, which we have trodden so often together,  so that now the turf is bare round some of  those trees, round certain plays and poems,  certain favourites of ours — the turf is trodden  bare by our incessant unmethodical pacing.
If I  have to wait, I read; if I wake in the night, I feel  along the shelf for a book.
Swelling, perpetually  augmented, there is a vast accumulation of  unrecorded matter in my head.
Now and then I  break off a lump, Shakespeare it may be, it may  be some old woman called Peck; and say to  myself, smoking a cigarette in bed, “That’s  Shakespeare.
That’s Peck”— with a certainty of  recognition and a shock of knowledge which is  endlessly delightful, though not to be imparted.
So we shared our Pecks, our Shakespeares;  compared each other’s versions; allowed each  other’s insight to set our own Peck or  Shakespeare in a better light; and then sank  into one of those silences which are now and  again broken by a few words, as if a fin rose in  the wastes of silence; and then the fin, the  thought, sinks back into the depths, spreading  round it a little ripple of satisfaction, content.
‘Yes, but suddenly one hears a clock tick.
We who had been immersed in this world  became aware of another.
It is painful.
It was  Neville who changed our time.
He, who had  been thinking with the unlimited time of the  mind, which stretches in a flash from  Shakespeare to ourselves, poked the fire and  began to live by that other clock which marks  the approach of a particular person.
The wide  and dignified sweep of his mind contracted.
He  became on the alert.
I could feel him listening  to sounds in the street.
I noted how he touched  a cushion.
From the myriads of mankind and  all time past he had chosen one person, one  moment in particular.
A sound was heard in the  hall.
What he was saying wavered in the air like  an uneasy flame.
I watched him disentangle  one footstep from other footsteps; wait for  some particular mark of identification and  glance with the swiftness of a snake at the  handle of the door.
(Hence the astonishing  acuteness of his perceptions; he has been  trained always by one person.)
So concentrated  a passion shot out others like foreign matter  from a still, sparkling fluid.
I became aware of  my own vague and cloudy nature full of  sediment, full of doubt, full of phrases and  notes to be made in pocket-books.
The folds of  the curtain became still, statuesque; the  paperweight on the table hardened; the threads  on the curtain sparkled; everything became  definite, external, a scene in which I had no  part.
I rose, therefore; I left him.
‘Heavens!
how they caught me as I left the  room, the fangs of that old pain!
the desire for  someone not there.
For whom?
I did not know  at first; then remembered Percival.
I had not  thought of him for months.
Now to laugh with  him, to laugh with him at Neville — that was  what I wanted, to walk off arm-in-arm together  laughing.
But he was not there.
The place was  empty.
‘It is strange how the dead leap out on us  at street corners, or in dreams.
‘This fitful gust blowing so sharp and cold  upon me sent me that night across London to  visit other friends, Rhoda and Louis, desiring  company, certainty, contact.
I wondered, as I  mounted  the  stairs,  what  was  their  relationship?
What did they say alone?
I  figured her awkward with the tea-kettle.
She  gazed over the slate roofs — the nymph of the  fountain always wet, obsessed with visions,  dreaming.
She parted the curtain to look at the  night.
“Away!” she said.
“The moor is dark  beneath the moon.” I rang; I waited.
Louis  perhaps poured out milk in a saucer for the cat;  Louis, whose bony hands shut like the sides of  a dock closing themselves with a slow anguish  of effort upon an enormous tumult of waters,  who knew what has been said by the Egyptian,  the Indian, by men with high cheek-bones and  solitaires in hair shirts.
I knocked: I waited;  there was no answer.
I tramped down the stone  stairs again.
Our friends — how distant, how  mute, how seldom visited and little known.
And  I, too, am dim to my friends and unknown; a  phantom, sometimes seen, often not.
Life is a  dream surely.
Our flame, the will-o’-the-wisp  that dances in a few eyes, is soon to be blown  out and all will fade.
I recalled my friends.
I  thought of Susan.
She had bought fields.
Cucumbers and tomatoes ripened in her  hothouses.
The vine that had been killed by last  year’s frost was putting out a leaf or two.
She  walked heavily with her sons across her  meadows.
She went about the land attended by  men in gaiters, pointing with her stick at a roof,  at hedges, at walls fallen into disrepair.
The  pigeons followed her, waddling, for the grain  that she let fall from her capable, earthy  fingers.
“But I no longer rise at dawn,” she said.
Then Jinny — entertaining, no doubt, some  new young man.
They reached the crisis of the  usual conversation.
The room would be  darkened; chairs arranged.
For she still sought  the moment.
Without illusions, hard and clear  as crystal, she rode at the day with her breast  bared.
She let its spikes pierce her.
When the  lock whitened on her forehead she twisted it  fearlessly among the rest.
So when they come  to bury her nothing will be out of order.
Bits of  ribbons will be found curled up.
But still the  door opens.
Who is coming in?
she asks, and  rises to meet him, prepared, as on those first  spring nights when the tree under the big  London houses where respectable citizens were  going soberly to bed scarcely sheltered her love;  and the squeak of trams mixed with her cry of  delight and the rippling of leaves had to shade  her languor, her delicious lassitude as she sank  down cooled by all the sweetness of nature  satisfied.
Our friends, how seldom visited, how  little known — it is true; and yet, when I meet  an unknown person, and try to break off, here  at this table, what I call “my life”, it is not one  life that I look back upon; I am not one person;  I am many people; I do not altogether know  who I am — Jinny, Susan, Neville, Rhoda, or  Louis; or how to distinguish my life from  theirs.
‘So I thought that night in early autumn  when we came together and dined once more at  Hampton Court.
Our discomfort was at first  considerable, for each by that time was  committed to a statement, and the other person  coming along the road to the meeting-place  dressed like this or that, with a stick or without,  seemed to contradict it.
I saw Jinny look at  Susan’s earthy fingers and then hide her own; I,  considering Neville, so neat and exact, felt the  nebulosity of my own life blurred with all these  phrases.
He then boasted, because he was  ashamed of one room and one person and his  own  success.
Louis  and  Rhoda,  the  conspirators, the spies at table, who take notes,  felt, “After all, Bernard can make the waiter  fetch us rolls — a contact denied us.” We saw  for a moment laid out among us the body of the  complete human being whom we have failed to  be, but at the same time, cannot forget.
All that  we might have been we saw; all that we had  missed, and we grudged for a moment the  other’s claim, as children when the cake is cut,  the one cake, the only cake, watch their slice  diminishing.
‘However, we had our bottle of wine, and  under that seduction lost our enmity, and  stopped comparing.
And, half-way through  dinner, we felt enlarge itself round us the huge  blackness of what is outside us, of what we are  not.
The wind, the rush of wheels became the  roar of time, and we rushed — where?
And who  were we?
We were extinguished for a moment,  went out like sparks in burnt paper and the  blackness roared.
Past time, past history we  went.
For me this lasts but one second.
It is  ended by my own pugnacity.
I strike the table  with a spoon.
If I could measure things with  compasses I would, but since my only measure  is a phrase, I make phrases — I forget what, on  this occasion.
We became six people at a table  in Hampton Court.
We rose and walked  together down the avenue.
In the thin, the  unreal twilight, fitfully like the echo of voices  laughing down some alley, geniality returned to  me and flesh.
Against the gateway, against  some cedar tree I saw blaze bright, Neville,  Jinny, Rhoda, Louis, Susan, and myself, our  life, our identity.
Still King William seemed an  unreal monarch and his crown mere tinsel.
But  we — against the brick, against the branches,  we six, out of how many million millions, for  one moment out of what measureless  abundance of past time and time to come,  burnt there triumphant.
The moment was all;  the moment was enough.
And then Neville,  Jinny, Susan and I, as a wave breaks, burst  asunder, surrendered — to the next leaf, to the  precise bird, to a child with a hoop, to a  prancing dog, to the warmth that is hoarded in  woods after a hot day, to the lights twisted like  white ribbon on rippled waters.
We drew apart;  we were consumed in the darkness of the trees,  leaving Rhoda and Louis to stand on the terrace  by the urn.
‘When we emerged from that immersion —  how sweet, how deep!
— and came to the  surface and saw the conspirators still standing  there it was with some compunction.
We had  lost what they had kept.
We interrupted.
But we  were tired, and whether it had been good or  bad, accomplished or left undone, the dusky  veil was falling upon our endeavours; the lights  were sinking as we paused for a moment upon  the terrace that overlooks the river.
The  steamers were landing their trippers on the  bank; there was a distant cheering, the sound of  singing, as if people waved their hats and joined  in some last song.
The sound of the chorus  came across the water and I felt leap up that old  impulse, which has moved me all my life, to be  thrown up and down on the roar of other  people’s voices, singing the same song; to be  tossed up and down on the roar of almost  senseless merriment, sentiment, triumph,  desire.
But not now.
No!
I could not collect  myself; I could not distinguish myself; I could  not help letting fall the things that had made  me a minute ago eager, amused, jealous,  vigilant, and hosts of other things, into the  water.
I could not recover myself from that  endless throwing away, dissipation, flooding  forth without our willing it and rushing  soundlessly away out there under the arches of  the bridge, round some clump of trees or an  island, out where sea-birds sit on stakes, over  the roughened water to become waves in the  sea — I could not recover myself from that  dissipation.
So we parted.
‘Was this, then, this streaming away mixed  with Susan, Jinny, Neville, Rhoda, Louis, a sort  of death?
A new assembly of elements?
Some  hint of what was to come?
The note was  scribbled, the book shut, for I am an  intermittent student.
I do not say my lessons by  any means at the stated hour.
Later, walking  down Fleet Street at the rush hour, I recalled  that moment; I continued it.
“Must I for ever,” I  said, “beat my spoon on the table-cloth?
Shall I  not, too, consent?” The omnibuses were  clogged; one came up behind another and  stopped with a click, like a link added to a stone  chain.
People passed.
‘Multitudinous,  carrying  attaché-cases,  dodging with incredible celerity in and out, they  went past like a river in spate.
They went past  roaring like a train in a tunnel.
Seizing my  chance I crossed; dived down a dark passage  and entered the shop where they cut my hair.
I  leant my head back and was swathed in a sheet.
Looking-glasses confronted me in which I  could see my pinioned body and people  passing; stopping, looking, and going on  indifferent.
The hairdresser began to move his  scissors to and fro.
I felt myself powerless to  stop the oscillations of the cold steel.
So we are  cut and laid in swaths, I said; so we lie side by  side on the damp meadows, withered branches  and flowering.
We have no more to expose  ourselves on the bare hedges to the wind and  snow; no more to carry ourselves erect when  the gale sweeps, to bear our burden upheld; or  stay, unmurmuring, on those pallid noondays  when the bird creeps close to the bough and the  damp whitens the leaf.
We are cut, we are  fallen.
We are become part of that unfeeling  universe that sleeps when we are at our  quickest and burns red when we lie asleep.
We  have renounced our station and lie now flat,  withered and how soon forgotten!
Upon which  I saw an expression in the tail of the eye of the  hairdresser as if something interested him in  the street.
‘What interested the hairdresser?
What did  the hairdresser see in the street?
It is thus that  I am recalled.
(For I am no mystic; something  always plucks at me — curiosity, envy,  admiration, interest in hairdressers and the like  bring me to the surface.)
While he brushed the  fluff from my coat I took pains to assure myself  of his identity, and then, swinging my stick, I  went into the Strand, and evoked to serve as  opposite to myself the figure of Rhoda, always  so furtive, always with fear in her eyes, always  seeking some pillar in the desert, to find which  she had gone; she had killed herself.
“Wait,” I  said, putting my arm in imagination (thus we  consort with our friends) through her arm.
“Wait until these omnibuses have gone by.
Do  not cross so dangerously.
These men are your  brothers.” In persuading her I was also  persuading my own soul.
For this is not one  life; nor do I always know if I am man or  woman, Bernard or Neville, Louis, Susan,  Jinny, or Rhoda — so strange is the contact of  one with another.
‘Swinging my stick, with my hair newly cut  and the nape of my neck tingling, I went past  all those trays of penny toys imported from  Germany that men hold out in the street by St  Paul’s — St Paul’s, the brooding hen with  spread wings from whose shelter run  omnibuses and streams of men and women at  the rush hour.
I thought how Louis would  mount those steps in his neat suit with his cane  in his hand and his angular, rather detached  gait.
With his Australian accent (“My father, a  banker at Brisbane”) he would come, I thought,  with greater respect to these old ceremonies  than I do, who have heard the same lullabies  for a thousand years.
I am always impressed, as  I enter, by the rubbed roses; the polished  brasses; the flapping and the chanting, while  one boy’s voice wails round the dome like some  lost and wandering dove.
The recumbency and  the peace of the dead impress me — warriors at  rest under their old banners.
Then I scoff at the  floridity and absurdity of some scrolloping  tomb; and the trumpets and the victories and  the coats of arms and the certainty, so  sonorously repeated, of resurrection, of eternal  life.
My wandering and inquisitive eye then  shows me an awe- stricken child; a shuffling  pensioner; or the obeisances of tired shop-girls  burdened with heaven knows what strife in  their poor thin breasts come to solace  themselves in the rush hour.
I stray and look  and wonder, and sometimes, rather furtively,  try to rise on the shaft of somebody else’s  prayer into the dome, out, beyond, wherever  they go.
But then like the lost and wailing dove,  I find myself failing, fluttering, descending and  perching upon some curious gargoyle, some  battered nose or absurd tombstone, with  humour, with wonder, and so again watch the  sightseers with their Baedekers shuffling past,  while the boy’s voice soars in the dome and the  organ now and then indulges in a moment of  elephantine triumph.
How then, I asked, would  Louis roof us all in?
How would he confine us,  make us one, with his red ink, with his very  fine nib?
The voice petered out in the dome,  wailing.
‘So into the street again, swinging my stick,  looking at wire trays in stationers’ shop-  windows, at baskets of fruit grown in the  colonies, murmuring Pillicock sat on Pillicock’s  hill, or Hark, hark, the dogs do bark, or The  World’s great age begins anew, or Come away,  come away, death — mingling nonsense and  poetry, floating in the stream.
Something  always has to be done next.
Tuesday follows  Monday: Wednesday, Tuesday.
Each spreads  the same ripple.
The being grows rings, like a  tree.
Like a tree, leaves fall.
‘For one day as I leant over a gate that led  into a field, the rhythm stopped; the rhymes  and the hummings, the nonsense and the  poetry.
A space was cleared in my mind.
I saw  through the thick leaves of habit.
Leaning over  the gate I regretted so much litter, so much  unaccomplishment and separation, for one  cannot cross London to see a friend, life being  so full of engagements; nor take ship to India  and see a naked man spearing fish in blue  water.
I said life had been imperfect, an  unfinishing phrase.
It had been impossible for  me, taking snuff as I do from any bagman met  in a train, to keep coherency — that sense of the  generations, of women carrying red pitchers to  the Nile, of the nightingale who sings among  conquests and migrations.
It had been too vast  an undertaking, I said, and how can I go on  lifting my foot perpetually to climb the stair?
I  addressed myself as one would speak to a  companion with whom one is voyaging to the  North Pole.
‘I spoke to that self who had been with me  in many tremendous adventures; the faithful  man who sits over the fire when everybody has  gone to bed, stirring the cinders with a poker;  the man who has been so mysteriously and  with sudden accretions of being built up, in a  beech wood, sitting by a willow tree on a bank,  leaning over a parapet at Hampton Court; the  man who has collected himself in moments of  emergency and banged his spoon on the table,  saying, “I will not consent.”  ‘This self now as I leant over the gate  looking down over fields rolling in waves of  colour beneath me made no answer.
He threw  up no opposition.
He attempted no phrase.
His  fist did not form.
I waited.
I listened.
Nothing  came, nothing.
I cried then with a sudden  conviction of complete desertion, Now there is  nothing.
No fin breaks the waste of this  immeasurable sea.
Life has destroyed me.
No  echo comes when I speak, no varied words.
This is more truly death than the death of  friends, than the death of youth.
I am the  swathed figure in the hairdresser’s shop taking  up only so much space.
‘The scene beneath me withered.
It was  like the eclipse when the sun went out and left  the earth, flourishing in full summer foliage,  withered, brittle, false.
Also I saw on a winding  road in a dust dance the groups we had made,  how they came together, how they ate together,  how they met in this room or that.
I saw my  own indefatigable busyness — how I had  rushed from one to the other, fetched and  carried, travelled and returned, joined this  group and that, here kissed, here withdrawn;  always kept hard at it by some extraordinary  purpose, with my nose to the ground like a dog  on the scent; with an occasional toss of the  head, an occasional cry of amazement, despair  and then back again with my nose to the scent.
What a litter — what a confusion; with here  birth, here death; succulence and sweetness;  effort and anguish; and myself always running  hither and thither.
Now it was done with.
I had  no more appetites to glut; no more stings in me  with which to poison people; no more sharp  teeth and clutching hands or desire to feel the  pear and the grape and the sun beating down  from the orchard wall.
‘The woods had vanished; the earth was a  waste of shadow.
No sound broke the silence of  the wintry landscape.
No cock crowed; no  smoke rose; no train moved.
A man without a  self, I said.
A heavy body leaning on a gate.
A  dead man.
With dispassionate despair, with  entire disillusionment, I surveyed the dust  dance; my life, my friends’ lives, and those  fabulous presences, men with brooms, women  writing, the willow tree by the river — clouds  and phantoms made of dust too, of dust that  changed, as clouds lose and gain and take gold  or red and lose their summits and billow this  way and that, mutable, vain.
I, carrying a  notebook, making phrases, had recorded mere  changes; a shadow.
I had been sedulous to take  note of shadows.
How can I proceed now, I  said, without a self, weightless and visionless,  through a world weightless, without illusion?
‘The heaviness of my despondency thrust  open the gate I leant on and pushed me, an  elderly man, a heavy man with grey hair,  through the colourless field, the empty field.
No more to hear echoes, no more to see  phantoms, to conjure up no opposition, but to  walk always unshadowed, making no impress  upon the dead earth.
If even there had been  sheep munching, pushing one foot after  another, or a bird, or a man driving a spade into  the earth, had there been a bramble to trip me,  or a ditch, damp with soaked leaves, into which  to fall — but no, the melancholy path led along  the level, to more wintriness and pallor and the  equal and uninteresting view of the same  landscape.
‘How then does light return to the world  after the eclipse of the sun?
Miraculously.
Frailly.
In thin stripes.
It hangs like a glass  cage.
It is a hoop to be fractured by a tiny jar.
There is a spark there.
Next moment a flush of  dun.
Then a vapour as if earth were breathing  in and out, once, twice, for the first time.
Then  under the dullness someone walks with a green  light.
Then off twists a white wraith.
The woods  throb blue and green, and gradually the fields  drink in red, gold, brown.
Suddenly a river  snatches a blue light.
The earth absorbs colour  like a sponge slowly drinking water.
It puts on  weight; rounds itself; hangs pendent; settles  and swings beneath our feet.
‘So the landscape returned to me; so I saw  the fields rolling in waves of colour beneath  me, but now with this difference; I saw but was  not seen.
I walked unshadowed; I came  unheralded.
From me had dropped the old  cloak, the old response; the hollowed hand that  beats back sounds.
Thin as a ghost, leaving no  trace where I trod, perceiving merely, I walked  alone in a new world, never trodden; brushing  new flowers, unable to speak save in a child’s  words of one syllable; without shelter from  phrases — I who have made so many;  unattended, I who have always gone with my  kind; solitary, I who have always had someone  to share the empty grate, or the cupboard with  its hanging loop of gold.
‘But how describe the world seen without a  self?
There are no words.
Blue, red — even they  distract, even they hide with thickness instead  of letting the light through.
How describe or say  anything in articulate words again?
— save that  it fades, save that it undergoes a gradual  transformation, becomes, even in the course of  one short walk, habitual — this scene also.
Blindness returns as one moves and one leaf  repeats another.
Loveliness returns as one  looks, with all its train of phantom phrases.
One breathes in and out substantial breath;  down in the valley the train draws across the  fields lop-eared with smoke.
‘But for a moment I had sat on the turf  somewhere high above the flow of the sea and  the sound of the woods, had seen the house,  the garden, and the waves breaking.
The old  nurse who turns the pages of the picture-book  had stopped and had said, “Look.
This is the  truth.”  ‘So I was thinking as I came along  Shaftesbury Avenue to-night.
I was thinking of  that page in the picture-book.
And when I met  you in the place where one goes to hang up  one’s coat I said to myself, “It does not matter  whom I meet.
All this little affair of ‘being’ is  over.
Who this is I do not know; nor care; we  will dine together.” So I hung up my coat,  tapped you on the shoulder, and said, “Sit with  me.”  ‘Now the meal is finished; we are  surrounded by peelings and breadcrumbs.
I  have tried to break off this bunch and hand it  you; but whether there is substance or truth in  it I do not know.
Nor do I know exactly where  we are.
What city does that stretch of sky look  down upon?
Is it Paris, is it London where we  sit, or some southern city of pink-washed  houses lying under cypresses, under high  mountains, where eagles soar?
I do not at this  moment feel certain.
‘I begin now to forget; I begin to doubt the  fixity of tables, the reality of here and now, to  tap my knuckles smartly upon the edges of  apparently solid objects and say, “Are you  hard?” I have seen so many different things,  have made so many different sentences.
I have  lost in the process of eating and drinking and  rubbing my eyes along surfaces that thin, hard  shell which cases the soul, which, in youth,  shuts one in — hence the fierceness, and the  tap, tap, tap of the remorseless beaks of the  young.
And now I ask, “Who am I?” I have been  talking of Bernard, Neville, Jinny, Susan, Rhoda  and Louis.
Am I all of them?
Am I one and  distinct?
I do not know.
We sat here together.
But now Percival is dead, and Rhoda is dead; we  are divided; we are not here.
Yet I cannot find  any obstacle separating us.
There is no division  between me and them.
As I talked I felt “I am  you”.
This difference we make so much of, this  identity we so feverishly cherish, was  overcome.
Yes, ever since old Mrs Constable  lifted her sponge and pouring warm water over  me covered me with flesh I have been sensitive,  percipient.
Here on my brow is the blow I got  when Percival fell.
Here on the nape of my neck  is the kiss Jinny gave Louis.
My eyes fill with  Susan’s tears.
I see far away, quivering like a  gold thread, the pillar Rhoda saw, and feel the  rush of the wind of her flight when she leapt.
‘Thus when I come to shape here at this  table between my hands the story of my life  and set it before you as a complete thing, I have  to recall things gone far, gone deep, sunk into  this life or that and become part of it; dreams,  too, things surrounding me, and the inmates,  those old half-articulate ghosts who keep up  their hauntings by day and night; who turn over  in their sleep, who utter their confused cries,  who put out their phantom fingers and clutch  at me as I try to escape — shadows of people  one might have been; unborn selves.
There is  the old brute, too, the savage, the hairy man  who dabbles his fingers in ropes of entrails; and  gobbles and belches; whose speech is guttural,  visceral — well, he is here.
He squats in me.
To-  night he has been feasted on quails, salad, and  sweetbread.
He now holds a glass of fine old  brandy in his paw.
He brindles, purrs and  shoots warm thrills all down my spine as I sip.
It is true, he washes his hands before dinner,  but they are still hairy.
He buttons on trousers  and waistcoats, but they contain the same  organs.
He jibs if I keep him waiting for dinner.
He mops and mows perpetually, pointing with  his  half-idiot  gestures  of  greed  and  covetousness at what he desires.
I assure you, I  have great difficulty sometimes in controlling  him.
That man, the hairy, the ape-like, has  contributed his part to my life.
He has given a  greener glow to green things, has held his torch  with its red flames, its thick and smarting  smoke, behind every leaf.
He has lit up the cool  garden even.
He has brandished his torch in  murky by-streets where girls suddenly seem to  shine with a red and intoxicating translucency.
Oh, he has tossed his torch high!
He has led me  wild dances!
‘But no more.
Now to-night, my body rises  tier upon tier like some cool temple whose  floor is strewn with carpets and murmurs rise  and the altars stand smoking; but up above,  here in my serene head, comes only fine gusts  of melody, waves of incense, while the lost dove  wails, and the banners tremble above tombs,  and the dark airs of midnight shake trees  outside the open windows.
When I look down  from this transcendency, how beautiful are  even the crumbled relics of bread!
What  shapely spirals the peelings of pears make —  how thin, and mottled like some sea-bird’s egg.
Even the forks laid straight side by side appear  lucid, logical, exact; and the horns of the rolls  which we have left are glazed, yellow-plated,  hard.
I could worship my hand even, with its  fan of bones laced by blue mysterious veins and  its astonishing look of aptness, suppleness and  ability to curl softly or suddenly crush — its  infinite sensibility.
‘Immeasurably  receptive,  holding  everything, trembling with fullness, yet clear,  contained — so my being seems, now that  desire urges it no more out and away; now that  curiosity no longer dyes it a thousand colours.
It lies deep, tideless, immune, now that he is  dead, the man I called “Bernard”, the man who  kept a book in his pocket in which he made  notes — phrases for the moon, notes of  features; how people looked, turned, dropped  their cigarette ends; under B, butterfly powder,  under D, ways of naming death.
But now let the  door open, the glass door that is for ever  turning on its hinges.
Let a woman come, let a  young man in evening-dress with a moustache  sit down: is there anything that they can tell  me?
No!
I know all that, too.
And if she  suddenly gets up and goes, “My dear,” I say,  “you no longer make me look after you.” The  shock of the falling wave which has sounded all  my life, which woke me so that I saw the gold  loop on the cupboard, no longer makes quiver  what I hold.
‘So now, taking upon me the mystery of  things, I could go like a spy without leaving this  place, without stirring from my chair.
I can visit  the remote verges of the desert lands where the  savage sits by the camp-fire.
Day rises; the girl  lifts the watery fire- hearted jewels to her brow;  the sun levels his beams straight at the sleeping  house; the waves deepen their bars; they fling  themselves on shore; back blows the spray;  sweeping their waters they surround the boat  and the sea-holly.
The birds sing in chorus;  deep tunnels run between the stalks of flowers;  the house is whitened; the sleeper stretches;  gradually all is astir.
Light floods the room and  drives shadow beyond shadow to where they  hang in folds inscrutable.
What does the central  shadow hold?
Something?
Nothing?
I do not  know.
‘Oh, but there is your face.
I catch your eye.
I, who had been thinking myself so vast, a  temple, a church, a whole universe, unconfined  and capable of being everywhere on the verge  of things and here too, am now nothing but  what you see — an elderly man, rather heavy,  grey above the ears, who (I see myself in the  glass) leans one elbow on the table, and holds  in his left hand a glass of old brandy.
That is the  blow you have dealt me.
I have walked bang  into the pillar-box.
I reel from side to side.
I put  my hands to my head.
My hat is off — I have  dropped my stick.
I have made an awful ass of  myself and am justly laughed at by any passer-  by.
‘Lord, how unutterably disgusting life is!
What dirty tricks it plays us, one moment free;  the next, this.
Here we are among the  breadcrumbs and the stained napkins again.
That knife is already congealing with grease.
Disorder, sordidity and corruption surround us.
We have been taking into our mouths the  bodies of dead birds.
It is with these greasy  crumbs, slobbered over napkins, and little  corpses that we have to build.
Always it begins  again; always there is the enemy; eyes meeting  ours; fingers twitching ours; the effort waiting.
Call the waiter.
Pay the bill.
We must pull  ourselves up out of our chairs.
We must find  our coats.
We must go.
Must, must, must —  detestable word.
Once more, I who had thought  myself immune, who had said, “Now I am rid of  all that,” find that the wave has tumbled me  over,  head  over  heels,  scattering  my  possessions, leaving me to collect, to assemble,  to heap together, summon my forces, rise and  confront the enemy.
‘It is strange that we, who are capable of so  much suffering, should inflict so much  suffering.
Strange that the face of a person  whom I scarcely know save that I think we met  once on the gangway of a ship bound for Africa  — a mere adumbration of eyes, cheeks, nostrils  — should have power to inflict this insult.
You  look, eat, smile, are bored, pleased, annoyed —  that is all I know.
Yet this shadow which has sat  by me for an hour or two, this mask from which  peep two eyes, has power to drive me back, to  pinion me down among all those other faces, to  shut me in a hot room; to send me dashing like  a moth from candle to candle.
‘But wait.
While they add up the bill  behind the screen, wait one moment.
Now that  I have reviled you for the blow that sent me  staggering among peelings and crumblings and  old scraps of meat, I will record in words of one  syllable how also under your gaze with that  compulsion on me I begin to perceive this, that  and the other.
The clock ticks; the woman  sneezes; the waiter comes — there is a gradual  coming together, running into one, acceleration  and unification.
Listen: a whistle sounds,  wheels rush, the door creaks on its hinges.
I  regain the sense of the complexity and the  reality and the struggle, for which I thank you.
And with some pity, some envy and much good  will, take your hand and bid you good night.
‘Heaven be praised for solitude!
I am alone  now.
That almost unknown person has gone, to  catch some train, to take some cab, to go to  some place or person whom I do not know.
The  face looking at me has gone.
The pressure is  removed.
Here are empty coffee-cups.
Here are  chairs turned but nobody sits on them.
Here  are empty tables and nobody any more coming  to dine at them to-night.
‘Let me now raise my song of glory.
Heaven be praised for solitude.
Let me be  alone.
Let me cast and throw away this veil of  being, this cloud that changes with the least  breath, night and day, and all night and all day.
While I sat here I have been changing.
I have  watched the sky change.
I have seen clouds  cover the stars, then free the stars, then cover  the stars again.
Now I look at their changing no  more.
Now no one sees me and I change no  more.
