Now I cannot sink; cannot  altogether fall through the thin sheet now.
Now  I spread my body on this frail mattress and  hang suspended.
I am above the earth now.
I  am no longer upright, to be knocked against  and damaged.
All is soft, and bending.
Walls  and cupboards whiten and bend their yellow  squares on top of which a pale glass gleams.
Out of me now my mind can pour.
I can think  of my Armadas sailing on the high waves.
I am  relieved of hard contacts and collisions.
I sail  on alone under the white cliffs.
Oh, but I sink, I  fall!
That is the corner of the cupboard; that is  the nursery looking- glass.
But they stretch,  they elongate.
I sink down on the black plumes  of sleep; its thick wings are pressed to my eyes.
Travelling through darkness I see the stretched  flower-beds, and Mrs Constable runs from  behind the corner of the pampas-grass to say  my aunt has come to fetch me in a carriage.
I  mount; I escape; I rise on spring-heeled boots  over the tree-tops.
But I am now fallen into the  carriage at the hall door, where she sits nodding  yellow plumes with eyes hard like glazed  marbles.
Oh, to awake from dreaming!
Look,  there is the chest of drawers.
Let me pull  myself out of these waters.
But they heap  themselves on me; they sweep me between  their great shoulders; I am turned; I am  tumbled; I am stretched, among these long  lights, these long waves, these endless paths,  with people pursuing, pursuing.’  The sun rose higher.
Blue waves, green waves  swept a quick fan over the beach, circling the  spike of sea-holly and leaving shallow pools of  light here and there on the sand.
A faint black  rim was left behind them.
The rocks which had  been misty and soft hardened and were marked  with red clefts.
Sharp stripes of shadow lay on the grass,  and the dew dancing on the tips of the flowers  and leaves made the garden like a mosaic of  single sparks not yet formed into one whole.
The birds, whose breasts were specked canary  and rose, now sang a strain or two together,  wildly, like skaters rollicking arm-in-arm, and  were suddenly silent, breaking asunder.
The sun laid broader blades upon the  house.
The light touched something green in  the window corner and made it a lump of  emerald, a cave of pure green like stoneless  fruit.
It sharpened the edges of chairs and  tables and stitched white table-cloths with fine  gold wires.
As the light increased a bud here  and there split asunder and shook out flowers,  green veined and quivering, as if the effort of  opening had set them rocking, and pealing a  faint carillon as they beat their frail clappers  against their white walls.
Everything became  softly amorphous, as if the china of the plate  flowed and the steel of the knife were liquid.
Meanwhile the concussion of the waves  breaking fell with muffled thuds, like logs  falling, on the shore.
‘Now,’ said Bernard, ‘the time has come.
The  day has come.
The cab is at the door.
My huge  box bends George’s bandy-legs even wider.
The  horrible ceremony is over, the tips, and the  good-byes in the hall.
Now there is this gulping  ceremony with my mother, this hand-shaking  ceremony with my father; now I must go on  waving, I must go on waving, till we turn the  corner.
Now that ceremony is over.
Heaven be  praised, all ceremonies are over.
I am alone; I  am going to school for the first time.
‘Everybody seems to be doing things for  this moment only; and never again.
Never  again.
The urgency of it all is fearful.
Everybody  knows I am going to school, going to school for  the first time.
“That boy is going to school for  the first time,” says the housemaid, cleaning  the steps.
I must not cry.
I must behold them  indifferently.
Now the awful portals of the  station gape; “the moon-faced clock regards  me.” I must make phrases and phrases and so  interpose something hard between myself and  the stare of housemaids, the stare of clocks,  staring faces, indifferent faces, or I shall cry.
There is Louis, there is Neville, in long coats,  carrying handbags, by the booking-office.
They  are composed.
But they look different.’  ‘Here is Bernard,’ said Louis.
‘He is  composed; he is easy.
He swings his bag as he  walks.
I will follow Bernard, because he is not  afraid.
We are drawn through the booking-  office on to the platform as a stream draws  twigs and straws round the piers of a bridge.
There is the very powerful, bottle-green engine  without a neck, all back and thighs, breathing  steam.
The guard blows his whistle; the flag is  dipped; without an effort, of its own  momentum, like an avalanche started by a  gentle push, we start forward.
Bernard spreads  a rug and plays knuckle-bones.
Neville reads.
London crumbles.
London heaves and surges.
There is a bristling of chimneys and towers.
There a white church; there a mast among the  spires.
There a canal.
Now there are open  spaces with asphalt paths upon which it is  strange that people should now be walking.
There is a hill striped with red houses.
A man  crosses a bridge with a dog at his heels.
Now  the red boy begins firing at a pheasant.
The  blue boy shoves him aside.
“My uncle is the  best shot in England.
My cousin is Master of  Foxhounds.” Boasting begins.
And I cannot  boast, for my father is a banker in Brisbane,  and I speak with an Australian accent.’  ‘After all this hubbub,’ said Neville, ‘all this  scuffling and hubbub, we have arrived.
This is  indeed a moment — this is indeed a solemn  moment.
I come, like a lord to his halls  appointed.
That is our founder; our illustrious  founder, standing in the courtyard with one  foot raised.
I salute our founder.
A noble  Roman  air  hangs  over  these  austere  quadrangles.
Already the lights are lit in the  form rooms.
Those are laboratories perhaps;  and that a library, where I shall explore the  exactitude of the Latin language, and step  firmly upon the well-laid sentences, and  pronounce  the  explicit,  the  sonorous  hexameters of Virgil, of Lucretius; and chant  with a passion that is never obscure or formless  the loves of Catullus, reading from a big book, a  quarto with margins.
I shall lie, too, in the  fields among the tickling grasses.
I shall lie  with my friends under the towering elm trees.
‘Behold, the Headmaster.
Alas, that he  should excite my ridicule.
He is too sleek, he is  altogether too shiny and black, like some statue  in a public garden.
And on the left side of his  waistcoat, his taut, his drum-like waistcoat,  hangs a crucifix.’  ‘Old Crane,’ said Bernard, ‘now rises to  address us.
Old Crane, the Headmaster, has a  nose like a mountain at sunset, and a blue cleft  in his chin, like a wooded ravine, which some  tripper has fired; like a wooded ravine seen  from the train window.
He sways slightly,  mouthing out his tremendous and sonorous  words.
I love tremendous and sonorous words.
But his words are too hearty to be true.
Yet he  is by this time convinced of their truth.
And  when he leaves the room, lurching rather  heavily from side to side, and hurls his way  through the swing-doors, all the masters,  lurching rather heavily from side to side, hurl  themselves also through the swing-doors.
This  is our first night at school, apart from our  sisters.’  ‘This is my first night at school,’ said Susan,  ‘away from my father, away from my home.
My  eyes swell; my eyes prick with tears.
I hate the  smell of pine and linoleum.
I hate the wind-  bitten shrubs and the sanitary tiles.
I hate the  cheerful jokes and the glazed look of everyone.
I left my squirrel and my doves for the boy to  look after.
The kitchen door slams, and shot  patters among the leaves when Percy fires at  the rooks.
All here is false; all is meretricious.
Rhoda and Jinny sit far off in brown serge, and  look at Miss Lambert who sits under a picture  of Queen Alexandra reading from a book before  her.
There is also a blue scroll of needlework  embroidered by some old girl.
If I do not purse  my lips, if I do not screw my handkerchief, I  shall cry.’  ‘The purple light,’ said Rhoda, ‘in Miss  Lambert’s ring passes to and fro across the  black stain on the white page of the Prayer  Book.
It is a vinous, it is an amorous light.
Now  that our boxes are unpacked in the dormitories,  we sit herded together under maps of the entire  world.
There are desks with wells for the ink.
We shall write our exercises in ink here.
But  here I am nobody.
I have no face.
This great  company, all dressed in brown serge, has  robbed me of my identity.
We are all callous,  unfriended.
I will seek out a face, a composed, a  monumental face, and will endow it with  omniscience, and wear it under my dress like a  talisman and then (I promise this) I will find  some dingle in a wood where I can display my  assortment of curious treasures.
I promise  myself this.
So I will not cry.’  ‘That dark woman,’ said Jinny, ‘with high  cheek-bones, has a shiny dress, like a shell,  veined, for wearing in the evening.
That is nice  for summer, but for winter I should like a thin  dress shot with red threads that would gleam in  the firelight.
Then when the lamps were lit, I  should put on my red dress and it would be thin  as a veil, and would wind about my body, and  billow out as I came into the room, pirouetting.
It would make a flower shape as I sank down,  in the middle of the room, on a gilt chair.
But  Miss Lambert wears an opaque dress, that falls  in a cascade from her snow-white ruffle as she  sits under a picture of Queen Alexandra  pressing one white finger firmly on the page.
And we pray.’  ‘Now we march, two by two,’ said Louis,  ‘orderly, processional, into chapel.
I like the  dimness that falls as we enter the sacred  building.
I like the orderly progress.
We file in;  we seat ourselves.
We put off our distinctions  as we enter.
I like it now, when, lurching  slightly, but only from his momentum, Dr  Crane mounts the pulpit and reads the lesson  from a Bible spread on the back of the brass  eagle.
I rejoice; my heart expands in his bulk, in  his authority.
He lays the whirling dust clouds  in my tremulous, my ignominiously agitated  mind — how we danced round the Christmas  tree and handing parcels they forgot me, and  the fat woman said, “This little boy has no  present,” and gave me a shiny Union Jack from  the top of the tree, and I cried with fury — to be  remembered with pity.
Now all is laid by his  authority, his crucifix, and I feel come over me  the sense of the earth under me, and my roots  going down and down till they wrap themselves  round some hardness at the centre.
I recover  my continuity, as he reads.
I become a figure in  the procession, a spoke in the huge wheel that  turning, at last erects me, here and now.
I have  been in the dark; I have been hidden; but when  the wheel turns (as he reads) I rise into this  dim light where I just perceive, but scarcely,  kneeling boys, pillars and memorial brasses.
There is no crudity here, no sudden kisses.’  ‘The brute menaces my liberty,’ said  Neville, ‘when he prays.
Unwarmed by  imagination, his words fall cold on my head like  paving-stones, while the gilt cross heaves on  his waistcoat.
The words of authority are  corrupted by those who speak them.
I gibe and  mock at this sad religion, at these tremulous,  grief-stricken figures advancing, cadaverous  and wounded, down a white road shadowed by  fig trees where boys sprawl in the dust — naked  boys; and goatskins distended with wine hang  at the tavern door.
I was in Rome travelling  with my father at Easter; and the trembling  figure of Christ’s mother was borne niddle-  noddling along the streets; there went by also  the stricken figure of Christ in a glass case.
‘Now I will lean sideways as if to scratch  my thigh.
So I shall see Percival.
There he sits,  upright among the smaller fry.
He breathes  through his straight nose rather heavily.
His  blue and oddly inexpressive eyes are fixed with  pagan indifference upon the pillar opposite.
He  would make an admirable churchwarden.
He  should have a birch and beat little boys for  misdemeanours.
He is allied with the Latin  phrases on the memorial brasses.
He sees  nothing; he hears nothing.
He is remote from  us all in a pagan universe.
But look — he flicks  his hand to the back of his neck.
For such  gestures one falls hopelessly in love for a  lifetime.
Dalton, Jones, Edgar and Bateman  flick their hands to the back of their necks  likewise.
But they do not succeed.’  ‘At last,’ said Bernard, ‘the growl ceases.
The sermon ends.
He has minced the dance of  the white butterflies at the door to powder.
His  rough and hairy voice is like an unshaven chin.
Now he lurches back to his seat like a drunken  sailor.
It is an action that all the other masters  will try to imitate; but, being flimsy, being  floppy, wearing grey trousers, they will only  succeed in making themselves ridiculous.
I do  not despise them.
Their antics seem pitiable in  my eyes.
I note the fact for future reference  with many others in my notebook.
When I am  grown up I shall carry a notebook — a fat book  with many pages, methodically lettered.
I shall  enter my phrases.
Under B shall come  “Butterfly powder”.
If, in my novel, I describe  the sun on the window-sill, I shall look under B  and find butterfly powder.
That will be useful.
The tree “shades the window with green  fingers”.
That will be useful.
But alas!
I am so  soon distracted — by a hair like twisted candy,  by Celia’s Prayer Book, ivory covered.
Louis’  can contemplate nature, unwinking, by the  hour.
Soon I fail, unless talked to.
“The lake of  my mind, unbroken by oars, heaves placidly  and soon sinks into an oily somnolence.” That  will be useful.’  ‘Now we move out of this cool temple, into  the yellow playing- fields,’ said Louis.
‘And, as it  is a half-holiday (the Duke’s birthday) we will  settle among the long grasses, while they play  cricket.
Could I be “they” I would choose it; I  would buckle on my pads and stride across the  playing-field at the head of the batsmen.
Look  now, how everybody follows Percival.
He is  heavy.
He walks clumsily down the field,  through the long grass, to where the great elm  trees stand.
His magnificence is that of some  mediaeval commander.
A wake of light seems  to lie on the grass behind him.
Look at us  trooping after him, his faithful servants, to be  shot like sheep, for he will certainly attempt  some forlorn enterprise and die in battle.
My  heart turns rough; it abrades my side like a file  with two edges: one, that I adore his  magnificence; the other I despise his slovenly  accents — I who am so much his superior —  and am jealous.’  ‘And now,’ said Neville, ‘let Bernard begin.
Let him burble on, telling us stories, while we  lie recumbent.
Let him describe what we have  all seen so that it becomes a sequence.
Bernard  says there is always a story.
I am a story.
Louis  is a story.
There is the story of the boot-boy, the  story of the man with one eye, the story of the  woman who sells winkles.
Let him burble on  with his story while I lie back and regard the  stiff-legged figures of the padded batsmen  through the trembling grasses.
It seems as if  the whole world were flowing and curving — on  the earth the trees, in the sky the clouds.
I look  up, through the trees, into the sky.
The match  seems to be played up there.
Faintly among the  soft, white clouds I hear the cry “Run”, I hear  the cry “How’s that?” The clouds lose tufts of  whiteness as the breeze dishevels them.
If that  blue could stay for ever; if that hole could  remain for ever; if this moment could stay for  ever —  ‘But Bernard goes on talking.
Up they  bubble — images.
“Like a camel,” .
.
.
“a  vulture.” The camel is a vulture; the vulture a  camel; for Bernard is a dangling wire, loose, but  seductive.
Yes, for when he talks, when he  makes his foolish comparisons, a lightness  comes over one.
One floats, too, as if one were  that bubble; one is freed; I have escaped, one  feels.
Even the chubby little boys (Dalton,  Larpent  and  Baker)  feel  the  same  abandonment.
They like this better than the  cricket.
They catch the phrases as they bubble.
They let the feathery grasses tickle their noses.
And then we all feel Percival lying heavy among  us.
His curious guffaw seems to sanction our  laughter.
But now he has rolled himself over in  the long grass.
He is, I think, chewing a stalk  between his teeth.
He feels bored; I too feel  bored.
Bernard at once perceives that we are  bored.
I detect a certain effort, an extravagance  in his phrase, as if he said “Look!” but Percival  says “No.” For he is always the first to detect  insincerity; and is brutal in the extreme.
The  sentence tails off feebly.
Yes, the appalling  moment has come when Bernard’s power fails  him and there is no longer any sequence and he  sags and twiddles a bit of string and falls silent,  gaping as if about to burst into tears.
Among  the tortures and devastations of life is this then  — our friends are not able to finish their  stories.’  ‘Now let me try,’ said Louis, ‘before we  rise, before we go to tea, to fix the moment in  one effort of supreme endeavour.
This shall  endure.
We are parting; some to tea; some to  the nets; I to show my essay to Mr Barker.
This  will endure.
From discord, from hatred (I  despise dabblers in imagery — I resent the  power of Percival intensely) my shattered mind  is pieced together by some sudden perception.
I  take the trees, the clouds, to be witnesses of my  complete integration.
I, Louis, I, who shall walk  the earth these seventy years, am born entire,  out of hatred, out of discord.
Here on this ring  of grass we have sat together, bound by the  tremendous power of some inner compulsion.
The trees wave, the clouds pass.
The time  approaches when these soliloquies shall be  shared.
We shall not always give out a sound  like a beaten gong as one sensation strikes and  then another.
Children, our lives have been  gongs striking; clamour and boasting; cries of  despair; blows on the nape of the neck in  gardens.
‘Now grass and trees, the travelling air  blowing empty spaces in the blue which they  then recover, shaking the leaves which then  replace themselves, and our ring here, sitting,  with our arms binding our knees, hint at some  other order, and better, which makes a reason  everlastingly.
This I see for a second, and shall  try tonight to fix in words, to forge in a ring of  steel, though Percival destroys it, as he  blunders off, crushing the grasses, with the  small fry trotting subservient after him.
Yet it is  Percival I need; for it is Percival who inspires  poetry.’  ‘For how many months,’ said Susan, ‘for how  many years, have I run up these stairs, in the  dismal days of winter, in the chilly days of  spring?
Now it is midsummer.
We go upstairs  to change into white frocks to play tennis —  Jinny and I with Rhoda following after.
I count  each step as I mount, counting each step  something done with.
So each night I tear off  the old day from the calendar, and screw it tight  into a ball.
I do this vindictively, while Betty  and Clara are on their knees.
I do not pray.
I  revenge myself upon the day.
I wreak my spite  upon its image.
You are dead now, I say, school  day, hated day.
They have made all the days of  June — this is the twenty-fifth — shiny and  orderly, with gongs, with lessons, with orders to  wash, to change, to work, to eat.
We listen to  missionaries from China.
We drive off in  brakes along the asphalt pavement, to attend  concerts in halls.
We are shown galleries and  pictures.
‘At home the hay waves over the meadows.
My father leans upon the stile, smoking.
In the  house one door bangs and then another, as the  summer air puffs along the empty passages.
Some old picture perhaps swings on the wall.
A  petal drops from the rose in the jar.
The farm  wagons strew the hedges with tufts of hay.
All  this I see, I always see, as I pass the looking-  glass on the landing, with Jinny in front and  Rhoda lagging behind.
Jinny dances.
Jinny  always dances in the hall on the ugly, the  encaustic tiles; she turns cartwheels in the  playground; she picks some flower forbiddenly,  and sticks it behind her ear so that Miss Perry’s  dark eyes smoulder with admiration, for Jinny,  not me.
Miss Perry loves Jinny; and I could  have loved her, but now love no one, except my  father, my doves and the squirrel whom I left in  the cage at home for the boy to look after.’  ‘I hate the small looking-glass on the  stairs,’ said Jinny.
‘It shows our heads only; it  cuts off our heads.
And my lips are too wide,  and my eyes are too close together; I show my  gums too much when I laugh.
Susan’s head,  with its fell look, with its grass- green eyes  which poets will love, Bernard said, because  they fall upon close white stitching, put mine  out; even Rhoda’s face, mooning, vacant, is  completed, like those white petals she used to  swim in her bowl.
So I skip up the stairs past  them, to the next landing, where the long glass  hangs and I see myself entire.
I see my body  and head in one now; for even in this serge  frock they are one, my body and my head.
Look,  when I move my head I ripple all down my  narrow body; even my thin legs ripple like a  stalk in the wind.
I flicker between the set face  of Susan and Rhoda’s vagueness; I leap like one  of those flames that run between the cracks of  the earth; I move, I dance; I never cease to  move and to dance.
I move like the leaf that  moved in the hedge as a child and frightened  me.
I dance over these streaked, these  impersonal, distempered walls with their  yellow skirting as firelight dances over teapots.
I catch fire even from women’s cold eyes.
When  I read, a purple rim runs round the black edge  of the textbook.
Yet I cannot follow any word  through its changes.
I cannot follow any  thought from present to past.
I do not stand  lost, like Susan, with tears in my eyes  remembering home; or lie, like Rhoda,  crumpled among the ferns, staining my pink  cotton green, while I dream of plants that  flower under the sea, and rocks through which  the fish swim slowly.
I do not dream.
‘Now let us be quick.
Now let me be the  first to pull off these coarse clothes.
Here are  my clean white stockings.
Here are my new  shoes.
I bind my hair with a white ribbon, so  that when I leap across the court the ribbon  will stream out in a flash, yet curl round my  neck, perfectly in its place.
Not a hair shall be  untidy.’  ‘That is my face,’ said Rhoda, ‘in the  looking-glass behind Susan’s shoulder — that  face is my face.
But I will duck behind her to  hide it, for I am not here.
I have no face.
Other  people have faces; Susan and Jinny have faces;  they are here.
Their world is the real world.
The  things they lift are heavy.
They say Yes, they  say No; whereas I shift and change and am seen  through in a second.
If they meet a housemaid  she looks at them without laughing.
But she  laughs at me.
They know what to say if spoken  to.
They laugh really; they get angry really;  while I have to look first and do what other  people do when they have done it.
‘See now with what extraordinary certainty  Jinny pulls on her stockings, simply to play  tennis.
That I admire.
But I like Susan’s way  better, for she is more resolute, and less  ambitious of distinction than Jinny.
Both  despise me for copying what they do; but Susan  sometimes teaches me, for instance, how to tie  a bow, while Jinny has her own knowledge but  keeps it to herself.
They have friends to sit by.
They have things to say privately in corners.
But I attach myself only to names and faces;  and hoard them like amulets against disaster.
I  choose out across the hall some unknown face  and can hardly drink my tea when she whose  name I do not know sits opposite.
I choke.
I am  rocked from side to side by the violence of my  emotion.
I imagine these nameless, these  immaculate people, watching me from behind  bushes.
I leap high to excite their admiration.
At night, in bed, I excite their complete wonder.
I often die pierced with arrows to win their  tears.
If they should say, or I should see from a  label on their boxes, that they were in  Scarborough last holidays, the whole town runs  gold, the whole pavement is illuminated.
Therefore I hate looking- glasses which show  me my real face.
Alone, I often fall down into  nothingness.
I must push my foot stealthily lest  I should fall off the edge of the world into  nothingness.
I have to bang my head against  some hard door to call myself back to the body.’  ‘We are late,’ said Susan.
We must wait our  turn to play.
We will pitch here in the long  grass and pretend to watch Jinny and Clara,  Betty and Mavis.
But we will not watch them.
I  hate watching other people play games.
I will  make images of all the things I hate most and  bury them in the ground.
This shiny pebble is  Madame Carlo, and I will bury her deep  because of her fawning and ingratiating  manners, because of the sixpence she gave me  for keeping my knuckles flat when I played my  scales.
I buried her sixpence.
I would bury the  whole school: the gymnasium; the classroom;  the dining-room that always smells of meat;  and the chapel.
I would bury the red-brown  tiles and the oily portraits of old men —  benefactors, founders of schools.
There are  some trees I like; the cherry tree with lumps of  clear gum on the bark; and one view from the  attic towards some far hills.
Save for these, I  would bury it all as I bury these ugly stones  that are always scattered about this briny coast,  with its piers and its trippers.
At home, the  waves are mile long.
On winter nights we hear  them booming.
Last Christmas a man was  drowned sitting alone in his cart.’  ‘When Miss Lambert passes,’ said Rhoda,  ‘talking to the clergyman, the others laugh and  imitate her hunch behind her back; yet  everything changes and becomes luminous.
Jinny leaps higher too when Miss Lambert  passes.
Suppose she saw that daisy, it would  change.
Wherever she goes, things are changed  under her eyes; and yet when she has gone is  not the thing the same again?
Miss Lambert is  taking the clergyman through the wicket-gate  to her private garden; and when she comes to  the pond, she sees a frog on a leaf, and that will  change.
All is solemn, all is pale where she  stands, like a statue in a grove.
She lets her  tasselled silken cloak slip down, and only her  purple ring still glows, her vinous, her  amethystine ring.
There is this mystery about  people when they leave us.
When they leave us  I can companion them to the pond and make  them stately.
When Miss Lambert passes, she  makes the daisy change; and everything runs  like streaks of fire when she carves the beef.
Month by month things are losing their  hardness; even my body now lets the light  through; my spine is soft like wax near the  flame of the candle.
I dream; I dream.’  ‘I have won the game,’ said Jinny.
‘Now it  is your turn.
I must throw myself on the  ground and pant.
I am out of breath with  running, with triumph.
Everything in my body  seems thinned out with running and triumph.
My blood must be bright red, whipped up,  slapping against my ribs.
My soles tingle, as if  wire rings opened and shut in my feet.
I see  every blade of grass very clear.
But the pulse  drums so in my forehead, behind my eyes, that  everything dances — the net, the grass; your  faces leap like butterflies; the trees seem to  jump up and down.
There is nothing staid,  nothing settled, in this universe.
All is rippling,  all is dancing; all is quickness and triumph.
Only, when I have lain alone on the hard  ground, watching you play your game, I begin  to feel the wish to be singled out; to be  summoned, to be called away by one person  who comes to find me, who is attracted towards  me, who cannot keep himself from me, but  comes to where I sit on my gilt chair, with my  frock billowing round me like a flower.
And  withdrawing into an alcove, sitting alone on a  balcony we talk together.
‘Now the tide sinks.
Now the trees come to  earth; the brisk waves that slap my ribs rock  more gently, and my heart rides at anchor, like  a sailing-boat whose sails slide slowly down on  to the white deck.
The game is over.
We must  go to tea now.’  ‘The boasting boys,’ said Louis, ‘have gone now  in a vast team to play cricket.
They have driven  off in their great brake, singing in chorus.
All  their heads turn simultaneously at the corner  by the laurel bushes.
Now they are boasting.
Larpent’s brother played football for Oxford;  Smith’s father made a century at Lords.
Archie  and Hugh; Parker and Dalton; Larpent and  Smith; then again Archie and Hugh; Parker and  Dalton; Larpent and Smith — the names repeat  themselves; the names are the same always.
They are the volunteers; they are the cricketers;  they are the officers of the Natural History  Society.
They are always forming into fours and  marching in troops with badges on their caps;  they salute simultaneously passing the figure  of their general.
How majestic is their order,  how beautiful is their obedience!
If I could  follow, if I could be with them, I would sacrifice  all I know.
But they also leave butterflies  trembling with their wings pinched off; they  throw dirty pocket-handkerchiefs clotted with  blood screwed up into corners.
They make little  boys sob in dark passages.
They have big red  ears that stand out under their caps.
Yet that is  what we wish to be, Neville and I. I watch them  go with envy.
Peeping from behind a curtain, I  note the simultaneity of their movements with  delight.
If my legs were reinforced by theirs,  how they would run!
If I had been with them  and won matches and rowed in great races, and  galloped all day, how I should thunder out  songs at midnight!
In what a torrent the words  would rush from my throat!’  ‘Percival has gone now,’ said Neville.
‘He is  thinking of nothing but the match.
He never  waved his hand as the brake turned the corner  by the laurel bush.
He despises me for being  too weak to play (yet he is always kind to my  weakness).
He despises me for not caring if  they win or lose except that he cares.
He takes  my devotion; he accepts my tremulous, no  doubt abject offering, mixed with contempt as  it is for his mind.
For he cannot read.
Yet when  I read Shakespeare or Catullus, lying in the  long grass, he understands more than Louis.
Not the words — but what are words?
Do I not  know already how to rhyme, how to imitate  Pope, Dryden, even Shakespeare?
But I cannot  stand all day in the sun with my eyes on the  ball; I cannot feel the flight of the ball through  my body and think only of the ball.
I shall be a  clinger to the outsides of words all my life.
Yet I  could not live with him and suffer his stupidity.
He will coarsen and snore.
He will marry and  there will be scenes of tenderness at breakfast.
But now he is young.
Not a thread, not a sheet  of paper lies between him and the sun, between  him and the rain, between him and the moon  as he lies naked, tumbled, hot, on his bed.
Now  as they drive along the high road in their brake  his face is mottled red and yellow.
He will  throw off his coat and stand with his legs apart,  with his hands ready, watching the wicket.
And  he will pray, “Lord let us win”; he will think of  one thing only, that they should win.
‘How could I go with them in a brake to  play cricket?
Only Bernard could go with them,  but Bernard is too late to go with them.
He is  always too late.
He is prevented by his  incorrigible moodiness from going with them.
He stops, when he washes his hands, to say,  “There is a fly in that web.
Shall I rescue that  fly; shall I let the spider eat it?” He is shaded  with innumerable perplexities, or he would go  with them to play cricket, and would lie in the  grass, watching the sky, and would start when  the ball was hit.
But they would forgive him; for  he would tell them a story.’  ‘They have bowled off,’ said Bernard, ‘and I  am too late to go with them.
The horrid little  boys, who are also so beautiful, whom you and  Louis, Neville, envy so deeply, have bowled off  with their heads all turned the same way.
But I  am unaware of these profound distinctions.
My  fingers slip over the keyboard without knowing  which is black and which white.
Archie makes  easily a hundred; I by a fluke make sometimes  fifteen.
But what is the difference between us?
Wait though, Neville; let me talk.
The bubbles  are rising like the silver bubbles from the floor  of a saucepan; image on top of image.
I cannot  sit down to my book, like Louis, with ferocious  tenacity.
I must open the little trap-door and let  out these linked phrases in which I run  together whatever happens, so that instead of  incoherence there is perceived a wandering  thread, lightly joining one thing to another.
I  will tell you the story of the doctor.
‘When Dr Crane lurches through the  swing-doors after prayers he is convinced, it  seems, of his immense superiority; and indeed  Neville, we cannot deny that his departure  leaves us not only with a sense of relief, but  also with a sense of something removed, like a  tooth.
Now let us follow him as he heaves  through the swing-door to his own apartments.
Let us imagine him in his private room over the  stables undressing.
He unfastens his sock  suspenders (let us be trivial, let us be intimate).
Then with a characteristic gesture (it is difficult  to avoid these ready-made phrases, and they  are, in his case, somehow appropriate) he takes  the silver, he takes the coppers from his trouser  pockets and places them there, and there, on  his dressing-table.
With both arms stretched on  the arms of his chair he reflects (this is his  private moment; it is here we must try to catch  him): shall he cross the pink bridge into his  bedroom or shall he not cross it?
The two  rooms are united by a bridge of rosy light from  the lamp at the bedside where Mrs Crane lies  with her hair on the pillow reading a French  memoir.
As she reads, she sweeps her hand  with an abandoned and despairing gesture over  her forehead, and sighs, “Is this all?” comparing  herself with some French duchess.
