I could  shriek aloud at the smug self-satisfaction, at  the mediocrity of this world, which breeds  horse-dealers with coral ornaments hanging  from their watch-chains.
There is that in me  which will consume them entirely.
My laughter  shall make them twist in their seats; shall drive  them howling before me.
No; they are  immortal.
They triumph.
They will make it  impossible for me always to read Catullus in a  third-class railway carriage.
They will drive me  in October to take refuge in one of the  universities, where I shall become a don; and  go with schoolmasters to Greece; and lecture  on the ruins of the Parthenon.
It would be  better to breed horses and live in one of those  red villas than to run in and out of the skulls of  Sophocles and Euripides like a maggot, with a  high-minded wife, one of those University  women.
That, however, will be my fate.
I shall  suffer.
I am already at eighteen capable of such  contempt that horse-breeders hate me.
That is  my triumph; I do not compromise.
I am not  timid; I have no accent.
I do not finick about  fearing what people think of “my father a  banker at Brisbane” like Louis.
‘Now we draw near the centre of the  civilized world.
There are the familiar  gasometers.
There are the public gardens  intersected by asphalt paths.
There are the  lovers lying shamelessly mouth to mouth on  the burnt grass.
Percival is now almost in  Scotland; his train draws through the red  moors; he sees the long line of the Border hills  and the Roman wall.
He reads a detective novel,  yet understands everything.
The train slows and lengthens, as we  approach London, the centre, and my heart  draws out too, in fear, in exultation.
I am about  to meet — what?
What extraordinary adventure  waits me, among these mail vans, these porters,  these swarms of people calling taxis?
I feel  insignificant, lost, but exultant.
With a soft  shock we stop.
I will let the others get out  before me.
I will sit still one moment before I  emerge into that chaos, that tumult.
I will not  anticipate what is to come.
The huge uproar is  in my ears.
It sounds and resounds, under this  glass roof like the surge of a sea.
We are cast  down on the platform with our handbags.
We  are whirled asunder.
My sense of self almost  perishes; my contempt.
I become drawn in,  tossed down, thrown sky-high.
I step out on to  the platform, grasping tightly all that I possess  — one bag.’  The sun rose.
Bars of yellow and green fell on  the shore, gilding the ribs of the eaten-out boat  and making the sea-holly and its mailed leaves  gleam blue as steel.
Light almost pierced the  thin swift waves as they raced fan-shaped over  the beach.
The girl who had shaken her head  and made all the jewels, the topaz, the  aquamarine, the water-coloured jewels with  sparks of fire in them, dance, now bared her  brows and with wide-opened eyes drove a  straight pathway over the waves.
Their  quivering mackerel sparkling was darkened;  they massed themselves; their green hollows  deepened and darkened and might be traversed  by shoals of wandering fish.
As they splashed  and drew back they left a black rim of twigs and  cork on the shore and straws and sticks of  wood, as if some light shallop had foundered  and burst its sides and the sailor had swum to  land and bounded up the cliff and left his frail  cargo to be washed ashore.
In the garden the birds that had sung  erratically and spasmodically in the dawn on  that tree, on that bush, now sang together in  chorus, shrill and sharp; now together, as if  conscious of companionship, now alone as if to  the pale blue sky.
They swerved, all in one  flight, when the black cat moved among the  bushes, when the cook threw cinders on the  ash heap and startled them.
Fear was in their  song, and apprehension of pain, and joy to be  snatched quickly now at this instant.
Also they  sang emulously in the clear morning air,  swerving high over the elm tree, singing  together as they chased each other, escaping,  pursuing, pecking each other as they turned  high in the air.
And then tiring of pursuit and  flight, lovelily they came descending, delicately  declining, dropped down and sat silent on the  tree, on the wall, with their bright eyes  glancing, and their heads turned this way, that  way; aware, awake; intensely conscious of one  thing, one object in particular.
Perhaps it was a snail shell, rising in the  grass like a grey cathedral, a swelling building  burnt with dark rings and shadowed green by  the grass.
Or perhaps they saw the splendour of  the flowers making a light of flowing purple  over the beds, through which dark tunnels of  purple shade were driven between the stalks.
Or they fixed their gaze on the small bright  apple leaves, dancing yet withheld, stiffly  sparkling among the pink-tipped blossoms.
Or  they saw the rain drop on the hedge, pendent  but not falling, with a whole house bent in it,  and towering elms; or, gazing straight at the  sun, their eyes became gold beads.
Now glancing this side, that side, they  looked deeper, beneath the flowers, down the  dark avenues into the unlit world where the  leaf rots and the flower has fallen.
Then one of  them, beautifully darting, accurately alighting,  spiked the soft, monstrous body of the  defenceless worm, pecked again and yet again,  and left it to fester.
Down there among the  roots where the flowers decayed, gusts of dead  smells were wafted; drops formed on the  bloated sides of swollen things.
The skin of  rotten fruit broke, and matter oozed too thick  to run.
Yellow excretions were exuded by slugs,  and now and again an amorphous body with a  head at either end swayed slowly from side to  side.
The gold-eyed birds darting in between the  leaves observed that purulence, that wetness,  quizzically.
Now and then they plunged the tips  of their beaks savagely into the sticky mixture.
Now, too, the rising sun came in at the  window, touching the red- edged curtain, and  began to bring out circles and lines.
Now in the  growing light its whiteness settled in the plate;  the blade condensed its gleam.
Chairs and  cupboards loomed behind so that though each  was separate they seemed inextricably involved.
The looking-glass whitened its pool upon the  wall.
The real flower on the window-sill was  attended by a phantom flower.
Yet the phantom  was part of the flower, for when a bud broke  free the paler flower in the glass opened a bud  too.
The wind rose.
The waves drummed on the  shore, like turbaned warriors, like turbaned  men with poisoned assegais who, whirling their  arms on high, advance upon the feeding flocks,  the white sheep.
‘The complexity of things becomes more close,’  said Bernard, ‘here at college, where the stir  and pressure of life are so extreme, where the  excitement of mere living becomes daily more  urgent.
Every hour something new is unburied  in the great bran pie.
What am I?
I ask.
This?
No, I am that.
Especially now, when I have left  a room, and people talking, and the stone flags  ring out with my solitary footsteps, and I  behold  the  moon  rising,  sublimely,  indifferently, over the ancient chapel — then it  becomes clear that I am not one and simple,  but complex and many.
Bernard, in public,  bubbles; in private, is secretive.
That is what  they do not understand, for they are now  undoubtedly discussing me, saying I escape  them, am evasive.
They do not understand that  I have to effect different transitions; have to  cover the entrances and exits of several  different men who alternately act their parts as  Bernard.
I  am  abnormally  aware  of  circumstances.
I can never read a book in a  railway carriage without asking, Is he a builder?
Is she unhappy?
I was aware today acutely that  poor Simes, with his pimple, was feeling, how  bitterly, that his chance of making a good  impression upon Billy Jackson was remote.
Feeling this painfully, I invited him to dinner  with ardour.
This he will attribute to an  admiration which is not mine.
That is true.
But  “joined to the sensibility of a woman” (I am  here quoting my own biographer) “Bernard  possessed the logical sobriety of a man.” Now  people who make a single impression, and that,  in the main, a good one (for there seems to be a  virtue in simplicity), are those who keep their  equilibrium in mid-stream.
(I instantly see fish  with their noses one way, the stream rushing  past another.)
Canon, Lycett, Peters, Hawkins,  Larpent, Neville — all fish in mid-stream.
But  you understand, YOU, my self, who always  comes at a call (that would be a harrowing  experience to call and for no one to come; that  would make the midnight hollow, and explains  the expression of old men in clubs — they have  given up calling for a self who does not come),  you understand that I am only superficially  represented by what I was saying tonight.
Underneath, and, at the moment when I am  most disparate, I am also integrated.
I  sympathize effusively; I also sit, like a toad in a  hole, receiving with perfect coldness whatever  comes.
Very few of you who are now discussing  me have the double capacity to feel, to reason.
Lycett, you see, believes in running after hares;  Hawkins has spent a most industrious  afternoon in the library.
Peters has his young  lady at the circulating library.
You are all  engaged, involved, drawn in, and absolutely  energized to the top of your bent — all save  Neville, whose mind is far too complex to be  roused by any single activity.
I also am too  complex.
In my case something remains  floating, unattached.
‘Now, as a proof of my susceptibility to  atmosphere, here, as I come into my room, and  turn on the light, and see the sheet of paper,  the table, my gown lying negligently over the  back of the chair, I feel that I am that dashing  yet reflective man, that bold and deleterious  figure, who, lightly throwing off his cloak,  seizes his pen and at once flings off the  following letter to the girl with whom he is  passionately in love.
‘Yes, all is propitious.
I am now in the  mood.
I can write the letter straight off which I  have begun ever so many times.
I have just  come in; I have flung down my hat and my  stick; I am writing the first thing that comes  into my head without troubling to put the paper  straight.
It is going to be a brilliant sketch  which, she must think, was written without a  pause, without an erasure.
Look how unformed  the letters are — there is a careless blot.
All  must be sacrificed to speed and carelessness.
I  will write a quick, running, small hand,  exaggerating the down stroke of the “y” and  crossing the “t” thus — with a dash.
The date  shall be only Tuesday, the 17th, and then a  question mark.
But also I must give her the  impression that though he — for this is not  myself — is writing in such an off-hand, such a  slap-dash way, there is some subtle suggestion  of intimacy and respect.
I must allude to talks  we have had together — bring back some  remembered scene.
But I must seem to her  (this is very important) to be passing from  thing to thing with the greatest ease in the  world.
I shall pass from the service for the man  who was drowned (I have a phrase for that) to  Mrs Moffat and her sayings (I have a note of  them), and so to some reflections apparently  casual but full of profundity (profound  criticism is often written casually) about some  book I have been reading, some out-of-the-way  book.
I want her to say as she brushes her hair  or puts out the candle, “Where did I read that?
Oh, in Bernard’s letter.” It is the speed, the hot,  molten effect, the laval flow of sentence into  sentence that I need.
Who am I thinking of?
Byron of course.
I am, in some ways, like  Byron.
Perhaps a sip of Byron will help to put  me in the vein.
Let me read a page.
No; this is  dull; this is scrappy.
This is rather too formal.
Now I am getting the hang of it.
Now I am  getting his beat into my brain (the rhythm is  the main thing in writing).
Now, without  pausing I will begin, on the very lilt of the  stroke —.
‘Yet it falls flat.
It peters out.
I cannot get  up steam enough to carry me over the  transition.
My true self breaks off from my  assumed.
And if I begin to re-write it, she will  feel “Bernard is posing as a literary man;  Bernard is thinking of his biographer” (which is  true).
No, I will write the letter tomorrow  directly after breakfast.
‘Now let me fill my mind with imaginary  pictures.
Let me suppose that I am asked to  stay at Restover, King’s Laughton, Station  Langley three miles.
I arrive in the dusk.
In the  courtyard of this shabby but distinguished  house there are two or three dogs, slinking,  long-legged.
There are faded rugs in the hall; a  military gentleman smokes a pipe as he paces  the terrace.
The note is of distinguished poverty  and military connections.
A hunter’s hoof on  the writing table — a favourite horse.
“Do you  ride?” “Yes, sir, I love riding.” “My daughter  expects us in the drawing- room.” My heart  pounds against my ribs.
She is standing at a low  table; she has been hunting; she munches  sandwiches like a tomboy.
I make a fairly good  impression on the Colonel.
I am not too clever,  he thinks; I am not too raw.
Also I play  billiards.
Then the nice maid who has been with  the family thirty years comes in.
The pattern on  the plates is of Oriental long-tailed birds.
Her  mother’s portrait in muslin hangs over the  fireplace.
I can sketch the surroundings up to a  point with extraordinary ease.
But can I make it  work?
Can I hear her voice — the precise tone  with which, when we are alone, she says  “Bernard”?
And then what next?
‘The truth is that I need the stimulus of  other people.
Alone, over my dead fire, I tend to  see the thin places in my own stories.
The real  novelist, the perfectly simple human being,  could go on, indefinitely, imagining.
He would  not integrate, as I do.
He would not have this  devastating sense of grey ashes in a burnt-out  grate.
Some blind flaps in my eyes.
Everything  becomes impervious.
I cease to invent.
‘Let me recollect.
It has been on the whole  a good day.
The drop that forms on the roof of  the soul in the evening is round, many-  coloured.
There was the morning, fine; there  was the afternoon, walking.
I like views of  spires across grey fields.
I like glimpses  between people’s shoulders.
Things kept  popping into my head.
I was imaginative,  subtle.
After dinner, I was dramatic.
I put into  concrete form many things that we had dimly  observed about our common friends.
I made  my transitions easily.
But now let me ask  myself the final question, as I sit over this grey  fire, with its naked promontories of black coal,  which of these people am I?
It depends so  much upon the room.
When I say to myself,  “Bernard”, who comes?
A faithful, sardonic  man, disillusioned, but not embittered.
A man  of no particular age or calling.
Myself, merely.
It is he who now takes the poker and rattles the  cinders so that they fall in showers through the  grate.
“Lord,” he says to himself, watching them  fall, “what a pother!” and then he adds,  lugubriously,  but  with  some  sense  of  consolation, “Mrs Moffat will come and sweep  it all up —” I fancy I shall often repeat to myself  that phrase, as I rattle and bang through life,  hitting first this side of the carriage, then the  other, “Oh, yes, Mrs Moffat will come and  sweep it all up.” And so to bed.’  ‘In a world which contains the present  moment,’ said Neville, ‘why discriminate?
Nothing should be named lest by so doing we  change it.
Let it exist, this bank, this beauty,  and I, for one instant, steeped in pleasure.
The  sun is hot.
I see the river.
I see trees specked  and burnt in the autumn sunlight.
Boats float  past, through the red, through the green.
Far  away a bell tolls, but not for death.
There are  bells that ring for life.
A leaf falls, from joy.
Oh,  I am in love with life!
Look how the willow  shoots its fine sprays into the air!
Look how  through them a boat passes, filled with  indolent, with unconscious, with powerful  young men.
They are listening to the  gramophone; they are eating fruit out of paper  bags.
They are tossing the skins of bananas,  which then sink eel-like, into the river.
All they  do is beautiful.
There are cruets behind them  and ornaments; their rooms are full of oars and  oleographs but they have turned all to beauty.
That boat passes under the bridge.
Another  comes.
Then another.
That is Percival, lounging  on the cushions, monolithic, in giant repose.
No, it is only one of his satellites, imitating his  monolithic, his giant repose.
He alone is  unconscious of their tricks, and when he  catches them at it he buffets them good-  humouredly with a blow of his paw.
They, too,  have passed under the bridge through ‘the  fountains of the pendant trees’, through its fine  strokes of yellow and plum colour.
The breeze  stirs; the curtain quivers; I see behind the  leaves the grave, yet eternally joyous buildings,  which seem porous, not gravid; light, though  set so immemorially on the ancient turf.
Now  begins to rise in me the familiar rhythm; words  that have lain dormant now lift, now toss their  crests, and fall and rise, and fall and rise again.
I am a poet, yes.
Surely I am a great poet.
Boats  and youth passing and distant trees, “the falling  fountains of the pendant trees”.
I see it all.
I  feel it all.
I am inspired.
My eyes fill with tears.
Yet even as I feel this, I lash my frenzy higher  and higher.
It foams.
It becomes artificial,  insincere.
Words and words and words, how  they gallop — how they lash their long manes  and tails, but for some fault in me I cannot give  myself to their backs; I cannot fly with them,  scattering women and string bags.
There is  some flaw in me — some fatal hesitancy, which,  if I pass it over, turns to foam and falsity.
Yet it  is incredible that I should not be a great poet.
What did I write last night if it was not good  poetry?
Am I too fast, too facile?
I do not know.
I do not know myself sometimes, or how to  measure and name and count out the grains  that make me what I am.
‘Something now leaves me; something  goes from me to meet that figure who is  coming, and assures me that I know him before  I see who it is.
How curiously one is changed by  the addition, even at a distance, of a friend.
How useful an office one’s friends perform  when they recall us.
Yet how painful to be  recalled, to be mitigated, to have one’s self  adulterated, mixed up, become part of another.
As he approaches I become not myself but  Neville mixed with somebody — with whom?
—  with Bernard?
Yes, it is Bernard, and it is to  Bernard that I shall put the question, Who am  I?’  ‘How strange,’ said Bernard, ‘the willow  looks seen together.
I was Byron, and the tree  was  Byron’s  tree,  lachrymose,  down-  showering, lamenting.
Now that we look at the  tree together, it has a combined look, each  branch distinct, and I will tell you what I feel,  under the compulsion of your clarity.
‘I feel your disapproval, I feel your force.
I  become, with you, an untidy, an impulsive  human being whose bandanna handkerchief is  for ever stained with the grease of crumpets.
Yes, I hold Gray’s Elegy in one hand; with the  other I scoop out the bottom crumpet, that has  absorbed all the butter and sticks to the bottom  of the plate.
This offends you; I feel your  distress acutely.
Inspired by it and anxious to  regain your good opinion, I proceed to tell you  how I have just pulled Percival out of bed; I  describe his slippers, his table, his guttered  candle; his surly and complaining accents as I  pull the blankets off his feet; he burrowing like  some vast cocoon meanwhile.
I describe all this  in such a way that, centred as you are upon  some private sorrow (for a hooded shape  presides over our encounter), you give way, you  laugh and delight in me.
My charm and flow of  language, unexpected and spontaneous as it is,  delights me too.
I am astonished, as I draw the  veil off things with words, how much, how  infinitely more than I can say, I have observed.
More and more bubbles into my mind as I talk,  images and images.
This, I say to myself, is  what I need; why, I ask, can I not finish the  letter that I am writing?
For my room is always  scattered with unfinished letters.
I begin to  suspect, when I am with you, that I am among  the most gifted of men.
I am filled with the  delight of youth, with potency, with the sense  of what is to come.
Blundering, but fervid, I see  myself buzzing round flowers, humming down  scarlet cups, making blue funnels resound with  my prodigious booming.
How richly I shall  enjoy my youth (you make me feel).
And  London.
And freedom.
But stop.
You are not  listening.
You are making some protest, as you  slide, with an inexpressibly familiar gesture,  your hand along your knee.
By such signs we  diagnose our friends’ diseases.
“Do not, in your  affluence and plenty,” you seem to say, “pass  me by.” “Stop,” you say.
“Ask me what I suffer.”  ‘Let me then create you.
(You have done as  much for me.)
You lie on this hot bank, in this  lovely, this fading, this still bright October day,  watching boat after boat float through the  combed-out twigs of the willow tree.
And you  wish to be a poet; and you wish to be a lover.
But the splendid clarity of your intelligence,  and the remorseless honesty of your intellect  (these Latin words I owe you; these qualities of  yours make me shift a little uneasily and see  the faded patches, the thin strands in my own  equipment) bring you to a halt.
You indulge in  no mystifications.
You do not fog yourself with  rosy clouds, or yellow.
‘Am I right?
Have I read the little gesture  of your left hand correctly?
If so, give me your  poems; hand over the sheets you wrote last  night in such a fervour of inspiration that you  now feel a little sheepish.
For you distrust  inspiration, yours or mine.
Let us go back  together, over the bridge, under the elm trees,  to my room, where, with walls round us and red  serge curtains drawn, we can shut out these  distracting voices, scents and savours of lime  trees, and other lives; these pert shop-girls,  disdainfully tripping, these shuffling, heavy-  laden old women; these furtive glimpses of  some vague and vanishing figure — it might be  Jinny, it might be Susan, or was that Rhoda  disappearing down the avenue?
Again, from  some slight twitch I guess your feeling; I have  escaped you; I have gone buzzing like a swarm  of bees, endlessly vagrant, with none of your  power of fixing remorselessly upon a single  object.
But I will return.’  ‘When there are buildings like these,’ said  Neville, ‘I cannot endure that there should be  shop-girls.
Their titter, their gossip, offends me;  breaks into my stillness, and nudges me, in  moments of purest exultation, to remember  our degradation.
‘But now we have regained our territory  after that brief brush with the bicycles and the  lime scent and the vanishing figures in the  distracted street.
Here we are masters of  tranquillity and order; inheritors of proud  tradition.
The lights are beginning to make  yellow slits across the square.
Mists from the  river are filling these ancient spaces.
They cling,  gently, to the hoary stone.
The leaves now are  thick in country lanes, sheep cough in the damp  fields; but here in your room we are dry.
We  talk privately.
The fire leaps and sinks, making  some knob bright.
‘You have been reading Byron.
You have  been marking the passages that seem to  approve of your own character.
I find marks  against all those sentences which seem to  express a sardonic yet passionate nature; a  moth-like impetuosity dashing itself against  hard glass.
You thought, as you drew your  pencil there, “I too throw off my cloak like that.
I too snap my fingers in the face of destiny.” Yet  Byron never made tea as you do, who fill the  pot so that when you put the lid on the tea  spills over.
There is a brown pool on the table —  it is running among your books and papers.
Now you mop it up, clumsily, with your pocket-  handkerchief.
You then stuff your handkerchief  back into your pocket — that is not Byron; that  is you; that is so essentially you that if I think  of you in twenty years’ time, when we are both  famous, gouty and intolerable, it will be by that  scene: and if you are dead, I shall weep.
Once  you were Tolstoi’s young man; now you are  Byron’s young man; perhaps you will be  Meredith’s young man; then you will visit Paris  in the Easter vacation and come back wearing a  black tie, some detestable Frenchman whom  nobody has ever heard of.
Then I shall drop  you.
‘I am one person — myself.
I do not  impersonate Catullus, whom I adore.
I am the  most slavish of students, with here a dictionary,  there a notebook in which I enter curious uses  of the past participle.
But one cannot go on for  ever cutting these ancient inscriptions clearer  with a knife.
Shall I always draw the red serge  curtain close and see my book, laid like a block  of marble, pale under the lamp?
That would be  a glorious life, to addict oneself to perfection; to  follow the curve of the sentence wherever it  might lead, into deserts, under drifts of sand,  regardless of lures, of seductions; to be poor  always and unkempt; to be ridiculous in  Piccadilly.
‘But I am too nervous to end my sentence  properly.
I speak quickly, as I pace up and  down, to conceal my agitation.
I hate your  greasy handkerchiefs — you will stain your  copy of Don Juan.
You are not listening to me.
You are making phrases about Byron.
And  while you gesticulate, with your cloak, your  cane, I am trying to expose a secret told to  nobody yet; I am asking you (as I stand with  my back to you) to take my life in your hands  and tell me whether I am doomed always to  cause repulsion in those I love?
‘I stand with my back to you fidgeting.
No,  my hands are now perfectly still.
Precisely,  opening a space in the bookcase, I insert Don  Juan; there.
I would rather be loved, I would  rather be famous than follow perfection  through the sand.
But am I doomed to cause  disgust?
Am I a poet?
Take it.
The desire which  is loaded behind my lips, cold as lead, fell as a  bullet, the thing I aim at shop-girls, women, the  pretence, the vulgarity of life (because I love it)  shoots at you as I throw — catch it — my poem.’  ‘He has shot like an arrow from the room,’  said Bernard.
‘He has left me his poem.
O  friendship, I too will press flowers between the  pages of Shakespeare’s sonnets!
O friendship,  how piercing are your darts — there, there,  again there.
He looked at me, turning to face  me; he gave me his poem.
All mists curl off the  roof of my being.
That confidence I shall keep  to my dying day.
Like a long wave, like a roll of  heavy waters, he went over me, his devastating  presence — dragging me open, laying bare the  pebbles on the shore of my soul.
It was  humiliating; I was turned to small stones.
All  semblances were rolled up.
“You are not Byron;  you are your self.” To be contracted by another  person into a single being — how strange.
‘How strange to feel the line that is spun  from us lengthening its fine filament across the  misty spaces of the intervening world.
He is  gone; I stand here, holding his poem.
Between  us is this line.
But now, how comfortable, how  reassuring to feel that alien presence removed,  that scrutiny darkened and hooded over!
How  grateful to draw the blinds, and admit no other  presence; to feel returning from the dark  corners in which they took refuge, those shabby  inmates, those familiars, whom, with his  superior force, he drove into hiding.
The  mocking, the observant spirits who, even in the  crisis and stab of the moment, watched on my  behalf now come flocking home again.
With  their addition, I am Bernard; I am Byron; I am  this, that and the other.
They darken the air and  enrich me, as of old, with their antics, their  comments, and cloud the fine simplicity of my  moment of emotion.
For I am more selves than  Neville thinks.
We are not simple as our friends  would have us to meet their needs.
Yet love is  simple.
‘Now they have returned, my inmates, my  familiars.
Now the stab, the rent in my defences  that Neville made with his astonishing fine  rapier, is repaired.
I am almost whole now; and  see how jubilant I am, bringing into play all  that Neville ignores in me.
I feel, as I look from  the window, parting the curtains, “That would  give him no pleasure; but it rejoices me.” (We  use our friends to measure our own stature.)
My scope embraces what Neville never reaches.
They are shouting hunting-songs over the way.
They are celebrating some run with the beagles.
The, little boys in caps who always turned at  the same moment when the brake went round  the corner are clapping each other on the  shoulder and boasting.
But Neville, delicately  avoiding  interference,  stealthily,  like  a  conspirator, hastens back to his room.
I see  him sunk in his low chair gazing at the fire  which has assumed for the moment an  architectural solidity.
If life, he thinks, could  wear that permanence, if life could have that  order — for above all he desires order, and  detests my Byronic untidiness; and so draws  his curtain; and bolts his door.
His eyes (for he  is in love; the sinister figure of love presided at  our encounter) fill with longing; fill with tears.
He snatches the poker and with one blow  destroys that momentary appearance of solidity  in the burning coals.
All changes.
And youth  and love.
The boat has floated through the arch  of the willows and is now under the bridge.
Percival, Tony, Archie, or another, will go to  India.
We shall not meet again.
Then he  stretches his hand for his copy-book — a neat  volume bound in mottled paper — and writes  feverishly long lines of poetry, in the manner of  whomever he admires most at the moment.
‘But I want to linger; to lean from the  window; to listen.
There again comes that  rollicking chorus.
They are now smashing china  — that also is the convention.
The chorus, like a  torrent jumping rocks, brutally assaulting old  trees, pours with splendid abandonment  headlong over precipices.
On they roll; on they  gallop, after hounds, after footballs; they pump  up and down attached to oars like sacks of  flour.
All divisions are merged — they act like  one man.
The gusty October wind blows the  uproar in bursts of sound and silence across the  court.
Now again they are smashing the china  — that is the convention.
An old, unsteady  woman carrying a bag trots home under the  fire-red windows.
She is half afraid that they  will fall on her and tumble her into the gutter.
Yet she pauses as if to warm her knobbed, her  rheumaticky hands at the bonfire which flares  away with streams of sparks and bits of blown  paper.
The old woman pauses against the lit  window.
A contrast.
That I see and Neville does  not see; that I feel and Neville does not feel.
Hence he will reach perfection and I shall fail  and shall leave nothing behind me but  imperfect phrases littered with sand.
‘I think of Louis now.
What malevolent yet  searching light would Louis throw upon this  dwindling autumn evening, upon this china-  smashing and trolling of hunting-songs, upon  Neville, Byron and our life here?
His thin lips  are somewhat pursed; his cheeks are pale; he  pores in an office over some obscure  commercial document.
“My father, a banker at  Brisbane”— being ashamed of him he always  talks of him — failed.
So he sits in an office,  Louis the best scholar in the school.
But I  seeking contrasts often feel his eye on us, his  laughing eye, his wild eye, adding us up like  insignificant items in some grand total which  he is for ever pursuing in his office.
And one  day, taking a fine pen and dipping it in red ink,  the addition will be complete; our total will be  known; but it will not be enough.
‘Bang!
They have thrown a chair now  against the wall.
We are damned then.
My case  is dubious too.
Am I not indulging in  unwarranted emotions?
Yes, as I lean out of the  window and drop my cigarette so that it twirls  lightly to the ground, I feel Louis watching even  my cigarette.
And Louis says, “That means  something.
But what?”’  ‘People go on passing,’ said Louis.
They  pass  the  window  of  this  eating-shop  incessantly.
Motor-cars,  vans,  motor-  omnibuses; and again motor-omnibuses, vans,  motor-cars — they pass the window.
In the  background I perceive shops and houses; also  the grey spires of a city church.
In the  foreground are glass shelves set with plates of  buns and ham sandwiches.
All is somewhat  obscured by steam from a tea-urn.
A meaty,  vapourish smell of beef and mutton, sausages  and mash, hangs down like a damp net in the  middle of the eating- house.
I prop my book  against a bottle of Worcester sauce and try to  look like the rest.
‘Yet I cannot.
(They go on passing, they go  on passing in disorderly procession.)
I cannot  read my book, or order my beef, with  conviction.
I repeat, “I am an average  Englishman; I am an average clerk”, yet I look  at the little men at the next table to be sure that  I do what they do.
Supple-faced, with rippling  skins, that are always twitching with the  multiplicity of their sensations, prehensile like  monkeys, greased to this particular moment,  they are discussing with all the right gestures  the sale of a piano.
It blocks up the hall; so he  would take a Tenner.
People go on passing;  they go on passing against the spires of the  church and the plates of ham sandwiches.
The  streamers of my consciousness waver out and  are perpetually torn and distressed by their  disorder.
I cannot therefore concentrate on my  dinner.
“I would take a tenner.
The case is  handsome; but it blocks up the hall.” They dive  and plunge like guillemots whose feathers are  slippery with oil.
All excesses beyond that norm  are vanity.
That is the mean; that is the average.
Meanwhile the hats bob up and down; the door  perpetually shuts and opens.
I am conscious of  flux, of disorder; of annihilation and despair.
If  this is all, this is worthless.
Yet I feel, too, the  rhythm of the eating- house.
It is like a waltz  tune, eddying in and out, round and round.
The  waitresses, balancing trays, swing in and out,  round and round, dealing plates of greens, of  apricot and custard, dealing them at the right  time, to the right customers.
The average men,  including her rhythm in their rhythm (“I would  take a tenner; for it blocks up the hall”) take  their greens, take their apricots and custard.
Where then is the break in this continuity?
What the fissure through which one sees  disaster?
The circle is unbroken; the harmony  complete.
Here is the central rhythm; here the  common mainspring.
I watch it expand,  contract; and then expand again.
Yet I am not  included.
