You see me pour  myself out a glass of wine.
And you see behind  me the door opening, and people passing.
But  in order to make you understand, to give you  my life, I must tell you a story — and there are  so many, and so many — stories of childhood,  stories of school, love, marriage, death, and so  on; and none of them are true.
Yet like children  we tell each other stories, and to decorate them  we make up these ridiculous, flamboyant,  beautiful phrases.
How tired I am of stories,  how tired I am of phrases that come down  beautifully with all their feet on the ground!
Also, how I distrust neat designs of life that are  drawn upon half-sheets of note-paper.
I begin  to long for some little language such as lovers  use, broken words, inarticulate words, like the  shuffling of feet on the pavement.
I begin to  seek some design more in accordance with  those moments of humiliation and triumph  that come now and then undeniably.
Lying in a  ditch on a stormy day, when it has been raining,  then enormous clouds come marching over the  sky, tattered clouds, wisps of cloud.
What  delights me then is the confusion, the height,  the indifference and the fury.
Great clouds  always changing, and movement; something  sulphurous and sinister, bowled up, helter-  skelter; towering, trailing, broken off, lost, and  I forgotten, minute, in a ditch.
Of story, of  design, I do not see a trace then.
‘But meanwhile, while we eat, let us turn  over these scenes as children turn over the  pages of a picture-book and the nurse says,  pointing: “That’s a cow.
That’s a boat.” Let us  turn over the pages, and I will add, for your  amusement, a comment in the margin.
‘In the beginning, there was the nursery,  with windows opening on to a garden, and  beyond that the sea.
I saw something brighten  — no doubt the brass handle of a cupboard.
Then Mrs Constable raised the sponge above  her head, squeezed it, and out shot, right, left,  all down the spine, arrows of sensation.
And so,  as long as we draw breath, for the rest of time,  if we knock against a chair, a table, or a woman,  we are pierced with arrows of sensation — if we  walk in a garden, if we drink this wine.
Sometimes indeed, when I pass a cottage with a  light in the window where a child has been  born, I could implore them not to squeeze the  sponge over that new body.
Then, there was the  garden and the canopy of the currant leaves  which seemed to enclose everything; flowers,  burning like sparks upon the depths of green; a  rat wreathing with maggots under a rhubarb  leaf; the fly going buzz, buzz, buzz upon the  nursery ceiling, and plates upon plates of  innocent bread and butter.
All these things  happen in one second and last for ever.
Faces  loom.
Dashing round the corner.
“Hullo,” one  says, “there’s Jinny.
That’s Neville.
That’s Louis  in grey flannel with a snake belt.
That’s Rhoda.”  She had a basin in which she sailed petals of  white flowers.
It was Susan who cried, that day  when I was in the tool- house with Neville; and  I felt my indifference melt.
Neville did not melt.
“Therefore,” I said, “I am myself, not Neville”, a  wonderful discovery.
Susan cried and I followed  her.
Her wet pocket-handkerchief, and the sight  of her little back heaving up and down like a  pump-handle, sobbing for what was denied her,  screwed my nerves up.
“That is not to be  borne,” I said, as I sat beside her on the roots  that were hard as skeletons.
I then first became  aware of the presence of those enemies who  change, but are always there; the forces we  fight against.
To let oneself be carried on  passively is unthinkable.
“That’s your course,  world,” one says, “mine is this.” So, “Let’s  explore,” I cried, and jumped up, and ran  downhill with Susan and saw the stable-boy  clattering about the yard in great boots.
Down  below, through the depths of the leaves, the  gardeners swept the lawns with great brooms.
The lady sat writing.
Transfixed, stopped dead, I  thought, “I cannot interfere with a single stroke  of those brooms.
They sweep and they sweep.
Nor with the fixity of that woman writing.” It is  strange that one cannot stop gardeners  sweeping nor dislodge a woman.
There they  have remained all my life.
It is as if one had  woken in Stonehenge surrounded by a circle of  great stones, these enemies, these presences.
Then a wood-pigeon flew out of the trees.
And  being in love for the first time, I made a phrase  — a poem about a wood-pigeon — a single  phrase, for a hole had been knocked in my  mind, one of those sudden transparencies  through which one sees everything.
Then more  bread and butter and more flies droning round  the nursery ceiling on which quivered islands  of light, ruffled, opalescent, while the pointed  fingers of the lustre dripped blue pools on the  corner of the mantelpiece.
Day after day as we  sat at tea we observed these sights.
‘But we were all different.
The wax — the  virginal wax that coats the spine melted in  different patches for each of us.
The growl of  the boot-boy making love to the tweeny among  the gooseberry bushes; the clothes blown out  hard on the line; the dead man in the gutter;  the apple tree, stark in the moonlight; the rat  swarming with maggots; the lustre dripping  blue — our white wax was streaked and stained  by each of these differently.
Louis was  disgusted by the nature of human flesh; Rhoda  by our cruelty; Susan could not share; Neville  wanted order; Jinny love; and so on.
We  suffered terribly as we became separate bodies.
‘Yet I was preserved from these excesses  and have survived many of my friends, am a  little stout, grey, rubbed on the thorax as it  were, because it is the panorama of life, seen  not from the roof, but from the third-storey  window, that delights me, not what one woman  says to one man, even if that man is myself.
How could I be bullied at school therefore?
How could they make things hot for me?
There  was the Doctor lurching into chapel, as if he  trod a battleship in a gale of wind, shouting out  his commands through a megaphone, since  people  in  authority  always  become  melodramatic — I did not hate him like Neville,  or revere him like Louis.
I took notes as we sat  together in chapel.
There were pillars, shadows,  memorial brasses, boys scuffling and swopping  stamps behind Prayer Books; the sound of a  rusty pump; the Doctor booming, about  immortality and quitting ourselves like men;  and Percival scratching his thigh.
I made notes  for stories; drew portraits in the margin of my  pocket-book and thus became still more  separate.
Here are one or two of the figures I  saw.
‘Percival sat staring straight ahead of him  that day in chapel.
He also had a way of flicking  his hand to the back of his neck.
His  movements were always remarkable.
We all  flicked our hands to the backs of our heads —  unsuccessfully.
He had the kind of beauty  which defends itself from any caress.
As he was  not in the least precocious, he read whatever  was written up for our edification without any  comment, and thought with that magnificent  equanimity (Latin words come naturally) that  was to preserve him from so many meannesses  and humiliations, that Lucy’s flaxen pigtails  and pink cheeks were the height of female  beauty.
Thus preserved, his taste later was of  extreme fineness.
But there should be music,  some wild carol.
Through the window should  come a hunting-song from some rapid  unapprehended life — a sound that shouts  among the hills and dies away.
What is  startling, what is unexpected, what we cannot  account for, what turns symmetry to nonsense  — that comes suddenly to my mind, thinking of  him.
The little apparatus of observation is  unhinged.
Pillars go down; the Doctor floats  off; some sudden exaltation possesses me.
He  was thrown, riding in a race, and when I came  along Shaftesbury Avenue tonight, those  insignificant and scarcely formulated faces that  bubble up out of the doors of the Tube, and  many obscure Indians, and people dying of  famine and disease, and women who have been  cheated, and whipped dogs and crying children  — all these seemed to me bereft.
He would have  done justice.
He would have protected.
About  the age of forty he would have shocked the  authorities.
No lullaby has ever occurred to me  capable of singing him to rest.
‘But let me dip again and bring up in my  spoon another of these minute objects which  we call optimistically, “characters of our  friends”— Louis.
He sat staring at the preacher.
His being seemed conglobulated in his brow,  his lips were pressed; his eyes were fixed, but  suddenly they flashed with laughter.
Also he  suffered from chilblains, the penalty of an  imperfect circulation.
Unhappy, unfriended, in  exile he would sometimes, in moments of  confidence, describe how the surf swept over  the beaches of his home.
The remorseless eye  of youth fixed itself upon his swollen joints.
Yes, but we were also quick to perceive how  cutting, how apt, how severe he was, how  naturally, when we lay under the elm trees  pretending to watch cricket, we waited his  approval, seldom given.
His ascendancy was  resented, as Percival’s was adored.
Prim,  suspicious, lifting his feet like a crane, there  was yet a legend that he had smashed a door  with his naked fist.
But his peak was too bare,  too stony for that kind of mist to cling to it.
He  was without those simple attachments by  which one is connected with another.
He  remained aloof; enigmatic; a scholar capable of  that inspired accuracy which has something  formidable about it.
My phrases (how to  describe the moon) did not meet with his  approval.
On the other hand, he envied me to  the point of desperation for being at my ease  with servants.
Not that the sense of his own  deserts failed him.
That was commensurate  with his respect for discipline.
Hence his  success, finally.
His life, though, was not happy.
But look — his eye turns white as he lies in the  palm of my hand.
Suddenly the sense of what  people are leaves one.
I return him to the pool  where he will acquire lustre.
‘Neville next — lying on his back staring up  at the summer sky.
He floated among us like a  piece of thistledown, indolently haunting the  sunny corner of the playing-field, not listening,  yet not remote.
It was through him that I have  nosed round without ever precisely touching  the Latin classics and have also derived some of  those persistent habits of thought which make  us irredeemably lop- sided — for instance about  crucifixes, that they are the mark of the devil.
Our half-loves and half-hates and ambiguities  on these points were to him indefensible  treacheries.
The swaying and sonorous Doctor,  whom I made to sit swinging his braces over a  gas- fire, was to him nothing but an instrument  of the inquisition.
So he turned with a passion  that made up for his indolence upon Catullus,  Horace, Lucretius, lying lazily dormant, yes, but  regardant, noticing, with rapture, cricketers,  while with a mind like the tongue of an ant-  eater, rapid, dexterous, glutinous, he searched  out every curl and twist of those Roman  sentences, and sought out one person, always  one person to sit beside.
‘And the long skirts of the masters’ wives  would come swishing by, mountainous,  menacing; and our hands would fly to our caps.
And  immense  dullness  would  descend  unbroken, monotonous.
Nothing, nothing,  nothing broke with its fin that leaden waste of  waters.
Nothing would happen to lift that  weight of intolerable boredom.
The terms went  on.
We grew; we changed; for, of course, we are  animals.
We are not always aware by any  means; we breathe, eat, sleep automatically.
We  exist  not  only  separately  but  in  undifferentiated blobs of matter.
With one  scoop a whole brakeful of boys is swept up and  goes cricketing, footballing.
An army marches  across Europe.
We assemble in parks and halls  and sedulously oppose any renegade (Neville,  Louis, Rhoda) who sets up a separate existence.
And I am so made that, while I hear one or two  distinct melodies, such as Louis sings, or  Neville, I am also drawn irresistibly to the  sound of the chorus chanting its old, chanting  its almost wordless, almost senseless song that  comes across courts at night; which we hear  now booming round us as cars and omnibuses  take people to theatres.
(Listen; the cars rush  past this restaurant; now and then, down the  river, a siren hoots, as a steamer makes for the  sea.)
If a bagman offers me snuff in a train I  accept.
I like the copious, shapeless, warm, not  so very clever, but extremely easy and rather  coarse aspect of things; the talk of men in clubs  and public-houses, of miners half naked in  drawers  —  the  forthright,  perfectly  unassuming, and without end in view except  dinner, love, money and getting along tolerably;  that which is without great hopes, ideals or  anything of that kind; what is unassuming  except to make a tolerably good job of it.
I like  all that.
So I joined them, when Neville sulked  or Louis, as I quite agree sublimely, turned on  his heel.
‘Thus, not equally by any means or with  order, but in great streaks my waxen waistcoat  melted, here one drop, there another.
Now  through this transparency became visible those  wondrous pastures, at first so moon-white,  radiant, where no foot has been; meadows of  the rose, the crocus, of the rock and the snake  too; of the spotted and swart; the embarrassing,  the binding and tripping up.
One leaps out of  bed, throws up the window; with what a whirr  the birds rise!
You know that sudden rush of  wings, that exclamation, carol, and confusion;  the riot and babble of voices; and all the drops  are sparkling, trembling, as if the garden were a  splintered mosaic, vanishing, twinkling; not yet  formed into one whole; and a bird sings close to  the window.
I heard those songs.
I followed  those phantoms.
I saw Joans, Dorothys,  Miriams, I forget their names, passing down  avenues, stopping on the crest of bridges to  look down into the river.
And from among  them rise one or two distinct figures, birds who  sang with the rapt egotism of youth by the  window; broke their snails on stones, dipped  their beaks in sticky, viscous matter; hard, avid,  remorseless; Jinny, Susan, Rhoda.
They had  been educated on the east coast or on the south  coast.
They had grown long pigtails and  acquired the look of startled foals, which is the  mark of adolescence.
‘Jinny was the first to come sidling up to  the gate to eat sugar.
She nipped it off the  palms of one’s hands very cleverly, but her ears  were laid back as if she might bite.
Rhoda was  wild — Rhoda one never could catch.
She was  both frightened and clumsy.
It was Susan who  first became wholly woman, purely feminine.
It  was she who dropped on my face those scalding  tears which are terrible, beautiful; both,  neither.
She was born to be the adored of poets,  since poets require safety; someone who sits  sewing, who says, “I hate, I love,” who is  neither comfortable nor prosperous, but has  some quality in accordance with the high but  unemphatic beauty of pure style which those  who create poetry so particularly admire.
Her  father trailed from room to room and down  flagged corridors in his flapping dressing-gown  and worn slippers.
On still nights a wall of  water fell with a roar a mile off.
The ancient  dog could scarcely heave himself up on to his  chair.
And some witless servant could be heard  laughing at the top of the house as she whirred  the wheel of the sewing-machine round and  round.
‘That I observed even in the midst of my  anguish  when,  twisting  her  pocket-  handkerchief, Susan cried, “I love; I hate.” “A  worthless servant,” I observed, “laughs upstairs  in the attic,” and that little piece of  dramatization shows how incompletely we are  merged in our own experiences.
On the  outskirts of every agony sits some observant  fellow who points; who whispers as he  whispered to me that summer morning in the  house where the corn comes up to the window,  “The willow grows on the turf by the river.
The  gardeners sweep with great brooms and the  lady sits writing.” Thus he directed me to that  which is beyond and outside our own  predicament; to that which is symbolic, and  thus perhaps permanent, if there is any  permanence in our sleeping, eating, breathing,  so animal, so spiritual and tumultuous lives.
‘The willow tree grew by the river.
I sat on  the smooth turf with Neville, with Larpent,  with Baker, Romsey, Hughes, Percival and  Jinny.
Through its fine plumes specked with  little pricked ears of green in spring, of orange  in autumn, I saw boats; buildings; I saw  hurrying, decrepit women.
I buried match after  match in the turf decidedly to mark this or that  stage in the process of understanding (it might  be philosophy; science; it might be myself)  while the fringe of my intelligence floating  unattached caught those distant sensations  which after a time the mind draws in and works  upon; the chime of bells; general murmurs;  vanishing figures; one girl on a bicycle who, as  she rode, seemed to lift the corner of a curtain  concealing the populous undifferentiated chaos  of life which surged behind the outlines of my  friends and the willow tree.
‘The tree alone resisted our eternal flux.
For I changed and changed; was Hamlet, was  Shelley, was the hero, whose name I now  forget, of a novel by Dostoevsky; was for a  whole term, incredibly, Napoleon; but was  Byron chiefly.
For many weeks at a time it was  my part to stride into rooms and fling gloves  and coat on the back of chairs, scowling  slightly.
I was always going to the bookcase for  another sip of the divine specific.
Therefore, I  let fly my tremendous battery of phrases upon  somebody quite inappropriate — a girl now  married, now buried; every book, every  window-seat was littered with the sheets of my  unfinished letters to the woman who made me  Byron.
For it is difficult to finish a letter in  somebody else’s style.
I arrived all in a lather at  her house; exchanged tokens but did not marry  her, being no doubt unripe for that intensity.
‘Here again there should be music.
Not  that wild hunting-song, Percival’s music; but a  painful, guttural, visceral, also soaring, lark-  like, pealing song to replace these flagging,  foolish transcripts — how much too deliberate!
how much too reasonable!
— which attempt to  describe the flying moment of first love.
A  purple slide is slipped over the day.
Look at a  room before she comes and after.
Look at the  innocents outside pursuing their way.
They  neither see nor hear; yet on they go.
Moving  oneself in this radiant yet gummy atmosphere  how conscious one is of every movement —  something adheres, something sticks to one’s  hands, taking up a newspaper even.
Then there  is the being eviscerated — drawn out, spun like  a spider’s web and twisted in agony round a  thorn.
Then a thunder-clap of complete  indifference; the light blown out; then the  return of measureless irresponsible joy; certain  fields seem to glow green for ever, and innocent  landscapes appear as if in the light of the first  dawn — one patch of green, for example, up at  Hampstead; and all faces are lit up, all conspire  in a hush of tender joy; and then the mystic  sense of completion and then that rasping, dog-  fish skin-like roughness — those black arrows  of shivering sensation, when she misses the  post, when she does not come.
Out rush a  bristle of horned suspicions, horror, horror,  horror — but what is the use of painfully  elaborating these consecutive sentences when  what one needs is nothing consecutive but a  bark, a groan?
And years later to see a middle-  aged woman in a restaurant taking off her  cloak.
‘But to return.
Let us again pretend that  life is a solid substance, shaped like a globe,  which we turn about in our fingers.
Let us  pretend that we can make out a plain and  logical story, so that when one matter is  despatched — love for instance — we go on, in  an orderly manner, to the next.
I was saying  there was a willow tree.
Its shower of falling  branches, its creased and crooked bark had the  effect of what remains outside our illusions yet  cannot stay them, is changed by them for the  moment, yet shows through stable, still, and  with a sternness that our lives lack.
Hence the  comment it makes; the standard it supplies,  and the reason why, as we flow and change, it  seems to measure.
Neville, for example, sat  with me on the turf.
But can anything be as  clear as all that, I would say, following his gaze,  through the branches, to a punt on the river,  and a young man eating bananas from a paper  bag?
The scene was cut out with such intensity  and so permeated with the quality of his vision  that for a moment I could see it too; the punt,  the bananas, the young man, through the  branches of the willow tree.
Then it faded.
‘Rhoda came wandering vaguely.
She  would take advantage of any scholar in a  blowing gown, or donkey rolling the turf with  slippered feet to hide behind.
What fear  wavered and hid itself and blew to a flame in  the depths of her grey, her startled, her  dreaming eyes?
Cruel and vindictive as we are,  we are not bad to that extent.
We have our  fundamental goodness surely or to talk as I talk  freely to someone I hardly know would be  impossible — we should cease.
The willow as  she saw it grew on the verge of a grey desert  where no bird sang.
The leaves shrivelled as she  looked at them, tossed in agony as she passed  them.
The trams and omnibuses roared hoarse  in the street ran over rocks and sped foaming  away.
Perhaps one pillar, sunlit, stood in her  desert by a pool where wild beasts come down  stealthily to drink.
‘Then Jinny came.
She flashed her fire over  the tree.
She was like a crinkled poppy, febrile,  thirsty with the desire to drink dry dust.
Darting, angular, not in the least impulsive, she  came prepared.
So little flames zigzag over the  cracks in the dry earth.
She made the willows  dance, but not with illusion; for she saw  nothing that was not there.
It was a tree; there  was the river; it was afternoon; here we were; I  in my serge suit; she in green.
There was no  past, no future; merely the moment in its ring  of light, and our bodies; and the inevitable  climax, the ecstasy.
‘Louis, when he let himself down on the  grass,  cautiously  spreading  (I  do  not  exaggerate) a mackintosh square, made one  acknowledge his presence.
It was formidable.
I  had the intelligence to salute his integrity; his  research with bony fingers wrapped in rags  because of chilblains for some diamond of  indissoluble veracity.
I buried boxes of burnt  matches in holes in the turf at his feet.
His  grim and caustic tongue reproved my  indolence.
He fascinated me with his sordid  imagination.
His heroes wore bowler-hats and  talked about selling pianos for tenners.
Through his landscape the tram squealed; the  factory poured its acrid fumes.
He haunted  mean streets and towns where women lay  drunk, naked, on counterpanes on Christmas  day.
His words falling from a shot-tower hit the  water and up it spurted.
He found one word,  one only for the moon.
Then he got up and  went; we all got up; we all went.
But I, pausing,  looked at the tree, and as I looked in autumn at  the fiery and yellow branches, some sediment  formed; I formed; a drop fell; I fell — that is,  from some completed experience I had  emerged.
‘I rose and walked away — I, I, I; not  Byron, Shelley, Dostoevsky, but I, Bernard.
I  even repeated my own name once or twice.
I  went, swinging my stick, into a shop, and  bought — not that I love music — a picture of  Beethoven in a silver frame.
Not that I love  music, but because the whole of life, its  masters, its adventurers, then appeared in long  ranks of magnificent human beings behind me;  and I was the inheritor; I, the continuer; I, the  person miraculously appointed to carry it on.
So, swinging my stick, with my eyes filmed, not  with pride, but with humility rather, I walked  down the street.
The first whirr of wings had  gone up, the carol, the exclamation; and now  one enters; one goes into the house, the dry,  uncompromising, inhabited house, the place  with all its traditions, its objects, its  accumulations of rubbish, and treasures  displayed upon tables.
I visited the family  tailor, who remembered my uncle.
People  turned up in great quantities, not cut out, like  the first faces (Neville, Louis, Jinny, Susan,  Rhoda), but confused, featureless, or changed  their features so fast that they seemed to have  none.
And blushing yet scornful, in the oddest  condition of raw rapture and scepticism, I took  the blow; the mixed sensations; the complex  and disturbing and utterly unprepared for  impacts of life all over, in all places, at the same  time.
How upsetting!
How humiliating never to  be sure what to say next, and those painful  silences, glaring as dry deserts, with every  pebble apparent; and then to say what one  ought not to have said, and then to be  conscious of a ramrod of incorruptible sincerity  which one would willingly exchange for a  shower of smooth pence, but could not, there at  that party, where Jinny sat quite at her ease,  rayed out on a gilt chair.
‘Then says some lady with an impressive  gesture, “Come with me.” She leads one into a  private alcove and admits one to the honour of  her intimacy.
Surnames change to Christian  names; Christian names to nicknames.
What is  to be done about India, Ireland or Morocco?
Old gentlemen answer the question standing  decorated under chandeliers.
One finds oneself  surprisingly supplied with information.
Outside  the undifferentiated forces roar; inside we are  very private, very explicit, have a sense indeed,  that it is here, in this little room, that we make  whatever day of the week it may be.
Friday or  Saturday.
A shell forms upon the soft soul,  nacreous, shiny, upon which sensations tap  their beaks in vain.
On me it formed earlier  than on most.
Soon I could carve my pear when  other people had done dessert.
I could bring my  sentence to a close in a hush of complete  silence.
It is at that season too that perfection  has a lure.
One can learn Spanish, one thinks,  by tying a string to the right toe and waking  early.
One fills up the little compartments of  one’s engagement book with dinner at eight;  luncheon at one-thirty.
One has shirts, socks,  ties laid out on one’s bed.
‘But it is a mistake, this extreme precision,  this  orderly  and  military  progress;  a  convenience, a lie.
There is always deep below  it, even when we arrive punctually at the  appointed time with our white waistcoats and  polite formalities, a rushing stream of broken  dreams, nursery rhymes, street cries, half-  finished sentences and sights — elm trees,  willow trees, gardeners sweeping, women  writing — that rise and sink even as we hand a  lady down to dinner.
While one straightens the  fork so precisely on the table- cloth, a thousand  faces mop and mow.
There is nothing one can  fish up in a spoon; nothing one can call an  event.
Yet it is alive too and deep, this stream.
Immersed in it I would stop between one  mouthful and the next, and look intently at a  vase, perhaps with one red flower, while a  reason struck me, a sudden revelation.
Or I  would say, walking along the Strand, “That’s  the phrase I want”, as some beautiful, fabulous  phantom bird, fish or cloud with fiery edges  swam up to enclose once and for all some  notion haunting me, after which on I trotted  taking stock with renewed delight of ties and  things in shop-windows.
‘The crystal, the globe of life as one calls it,  far from being hard and cold to the touch, has  walls of thinnest air.
If I press them all will  burst.
Whatever sentence I extract whole and  entire from this cauldron is only a string of six  little fish that let themselves be caught while a  million others leap and sizzle, making the  cauldron bubble like boiling silver, and slip  through my fingers.
Faces recur, faces and faces  — they press their beauty to the walls of my  bubble — Neville, Susan, Louis, Jinny, Rhoda  and a thousand others.
How impossible to  order them rightly; to detach one separately, or  to give the effect of the whole — again like  music.
What a symphony with its concord and  its discord, and its tunes on top and its  complicated bass beneath, then grew up!
Each  played his own tune, fiddle, flute, trumpet,  drum or whatever the instrument might be.
With Neville, “Let’s discuss Hamlet.” With  Louis, science.
With Jinny, love.
Then  suddenly, in a moment of exasperation, off to  Cumberland with a quiet man for a whole week  in an inn, with the rain running down the  window-panes and nothing but mutton and  mutton and again mutton for dinner.
Yet that  week remains a solid stone in the welter of  unrecorded sensation.
It was then we played  dominoes; then we quarrelled about tough  mutton.
Then we walked on the fell.
And a little  girl, peeping round the door, gave me that  letter, written on blue paper, in which I learnt  that the girl who had made me Byron was to  marry a squire.
A man in gaiters, a man with a  whip, a man who made speeches about fat oxen  at dinner — I exclaimed derisively and looked at  the racing clouds, and felt my own failure; my  desire to be free; to escape; to be bound; to  make an end; to continue; to be Louis; to be  myself; and walked out in my mackintosh  alone, and felt grumpy under the eternal hills  and not in the least sublime; and came home  and blamed the meat and packed and so back  again to the welter; to the torture.
‘Nevertheless, life is pleasant, life is  tolerable.
Tuesday follows Monday; then comes  Wednesday.
The mind grows rings; the identity  becomes robust; pain is absorbed in growth.
Opening and shutting, shutting and opening,  with increasing hum and sturdiness, the haste  and fever of youth are drawn into service until  the whole being seems to expand in and out  like the mainspring of a clock.
How fast the  stream flows from January to December!
We  are swept on by the torrent of things grown so  familiar that they cast no shadow.
We float, we  float .
.
.
‘However, since one must leap (to tell you  this story), I leap, here, at this point, and alight  now upon some perfectly commonplace object  — say the poker and tongs, as I saw them  sometime later, after that lady who had made  me Byron had married, under the light of one  whom I will call the third Miss Jones.
She is  the girl who wears a certain dress expecting one  at dinner, who picks a certain rose, who makes  one feel “Steady, steady, this is a matter of  some importance”, as one shaves.
Then one  asks, “How does she behave to children?” One  observes that she is a little clumsy with her  umbrella; but minded when the mole was  caught in the trap; and finally, would not make  the loaf at breakfast (I was thinking of the  interminable breakfasts of married life as I  shaved) altogether prosaic — it would not  surprise one sitting opposite this girl to see a  dragon-fly perched on the loaf at breakfast.
Also she inspired me with a desire to rise in the  world; also she made me look with curiosity at  the hitherto repulsive faces of new-born babies.
And the little fierce beat — tick-tack, tick-tack  — of the pulse of one’s mind took on a more  majestic rhythm.
I roamed down Oxford Street.
We are the continuers, we are the inheritors, I  said, thinking of my sons and daughters; and if  the feeling is so grandiose as to be absurd and  one conceals it by jumping on to a bus or  buying the evening paper, it is still a curious  element in the ardour with which one laces up  one’s boots, with which one now addresses old  friends committed to different careers.
Louis,  the attic dweller; Rhoda, the nymph of the  fountain always wet; both contradicted what  was then so positive to me; both gave the other  side of what seemed to me so evident (that we  marry, that we domesticate); for which I loved  them, pitied them, and also deeply envied them  their different lot.
‘Once I had a biographer, dead long since,  but if he still followed my footsteps with his old  flattering intensity he would here say, “About  this time Bernard married and bought a house  .
.
.
His friends observed in him a growing  tendency to domesticity .
.
.
The birth of  children made it highly desirable that he should  augment his income.” That is the biographic  style, and it does to tack together torn bits of  stuff, stuff with raw edges.
After all, one cannot  find fault with the biographic style if one begins  letters “Dear Sir”, ends them “your faithfully”;  one cannot despise these phrases laid like  Roman roads across the tumult of our lives,  since they compel us to walk in step like  civilized people with the slow and measured  tread of policemen though one may be  humming any nonsense under one’s breath at  the same time —“Hark, hark, the dogs do bark”,  “Come away, come away, death”, “Let me not to  the marriage of true minds”, and so on.
“He  attained some success in his profession .
.
.
He  inherited a small sum of money from an  uncle”— that is how the biographer continues,  and if one wears trousers and hitches them up  with braces, one has to say that, though it is  tempting now and then to go blackberrying;  tempting to play ducks and drakes with all  these phrases.
But one has to say that.
‘I became, I mean, a certain kind of man,  scoring my path across life as one treads a path  across the fields.
My boots became worn a little  on the left side.
When I came in, certain re-  arrangements took place.
“Here’s Bernard!”  How differently different people say that!
There  are many rooms — many Bernards.
There was  the charming, but weak; the strong, but  supercilious; the brilliant, but remorseless; the  very good fellow, but, I make no doubt, the  awful bore; the sympathetic, but cold; the  shabby, but — go into the next room — the  foppish, worldly, and too well dressed.
What I  was to myself was different; was none of these.
I am inclined to pin myself down most firmly  there before the loaf at breakfast with my wife,  who being now entirely my wife and not at all  the girl who wore when she hoped to meet me a  certain rose, gave me that feeling of existing in  the midst of unconsciousness such as the tree-  frog must have couched on the right shade of  green leaf.
“Pass” .
.
.
I would say.
“Milk” .
.
.
she  might answer, or “Mary’s coming” .
.
.
— simple  words for those who have inherited the spoils  of all the ages but not as said then, day after  day, in the full tide of life, when one feels  complete, entire, at breakfast.
Muscles, nerves,  intestines, blood-vessels, all that makes the coil  and spring of our being, the unconscious hum  of the engine, as well as the dart and flicker of  the tongue, functioned superbly.
Opening,  shutting; shutting, opening; eating, drinking;  sometimes speaking — the whole mechanism  seemed to expand, to contract, like the  mainspring of a clock.
Toast and butter, coffee  and bacon.
The Times and letters — suddenly  the telephone rang with urgency and I rose  deliberately and went to the telephone.
I took  up the black mouth.
I marked the ease with  which my mind adjusted itself to assimilate the  message — it might be (one has these fancies)  to assume command of the British Empire; I  observed my composure; I remarked with what  magnificent vitality the atoms of my attention  dispersed, swarmed round the interruption,  assimilated the message, adapted themselves to  a new state of affairs and had created, by the  time I put back the receiver, a richer, stronger,  a more complicated world in which I was called  upon to act my part and had no doubt whatever  that I could do it.
Clapping my hat on my head,  I strode into a world inhabited by vast numbers  of men who had also clapped their hats on their  heads, and as we jostled and encountered in  trains and tubes we exchanged the knowing  wink of competitors and comrades braced with  a thousand snares and dodges to achieve the  same end — to earn our livings.
‘Life is pleasant.
Life is good.
The mere  process of life is satisfactory.
Take the ordinary  man in good health.
He likes eating and  sleeping.
He likes the snuff of fresh air and  walking at a brisk pace down the Strand.
Or in  the country there’s a cock crowing on a gate;  there’s a foal galloping round a field.
Something always has to be done next.
Tuesday  follows Monday; Wednesday Tuesday.
Each  spreads the same ripple of wellbeing, repeats  the same curve of rhythm; covers fresh sand  with a chill or ebbs a little slackly without.
So  the being grows rings; identity becomes robust.
What was fiery and furtive like a fling of grain  cast into the air and blown hither and thither  by wild gusts of life from every quarter is now  methodical and orderly and flung with a  purpose — so it seems.
‘Lord, how pleasant!
Lord, how good!
How  tolerable is the life of little shopkeepers, I  would say, as the train drew through the  suburbs and one saw lights in bedroom  windows.
Active, energetic as a swarm of ants, I  said, as I stood at the window and watched  workers, bag in hand, stream into town.
What  hardness, what energy and violence of limb, I  thought, seeing men in white drawers’ scouring  after a football on a patch of snow in January.
Now being grumpy about some small matter —  it might be the meat — it seemed luxurious to  disturb with a little ripple the enormous  stability, whose quiver, for our child was about  to be born, increased its joy, of our married life.
I snapped at dinner.
I spoke unreasonably as if,  being a millionaire, I could throw away five  shillings; or, being a perfect steeple-jack,  stumbled over a footstool on purpose.
Going up  to bed we settled our quarrel on the stairs, and  standing by the window looking at a sky clear  like the inside of a blue stone, “Heaven be  praised,” I said, “we need not whip this prose  into poetry.
The little language is enough.” For  the space of the prospect and its clarity seemed  to offer no impediment whatsoever, but to  allow our lives to spread out and out beyond all  bristling of roofs and chimneys to the flawless  verge.
‘Into this crashed death — Percival’s.
“Which is happiness?” I said (our child had  been born), “which pain?” referring to the two  sides of my body, as I came downstairs, making  a purely physical statement.
Also I made note  of the state of the house; the curtain blowing;  the cook singing; the wardrobe showing  through the half- opened door.
I said, “Give  him (myself) another moment’s respite” as I  went downstairs.
“Now in this drawing-room he  is going to suffer.
There is no escape.” But for  pain words are lacking.
There should be cries,  cracks, fissures, whiteness passing over chintz  covers, interference with the sense of time, of  space; the sense also of extreme fixity in  passing objects; and sounds very remote and  then very close; flesh being gashed and blood  spurting, a joint suddenly twisted — beneath all  of which appears something very important, yet  remote, to be just held in solitude.
So I went  out.
I saw the first morning he would never see  — the sparrows were like toys dangled from a  string by a child.
To see things without  attachment, from the outside, and to realize  their beauty in itself — how strange!
And then  the sense that a burden has been removed;  pretence and make-believe and unreality are  gone, and lightness has come with a kind of  transparency, making oneself invisible and  things seen through as one walks — how  strange.
“And now what other discovery will  there be?” I said, and in order to hold it tight  ignored newspaper placards and went and  looked at pictures.
Madonnas and pillars,  arches and orange trees, still as on the first day  of creation, but acquainted with grief, there  they hung, and I gazed at them.
“Here,” I said,  “we are together without interruption.” This  freedom, this immunity, seemed then a  conquest, and stirred in me such exaltation that  I sometimes go there, even now, to bring back  exaltation and Percival.
But it did not last.
What  torments one is the horrible activity of the  mind’s eye — how he fell, how he looked, where  they carried him; men in loin-cloths, pulling  ropes; the bandages and the mud.
Then comes  the terrible pounce of memory, not to be  foretold, not to be warded off — that I did not  go with him to Hampton Court.
That claw  scratched; that fang tore; I did not go.
In spite  of his impatiently protesting that it did not  matter; why interrupt, why spoil our moment  of uninterrupted community?
— Still, I  repeated sullenly, I did not go, and so, driven  out of the sanctuary by these officious devils,  went to Jinny because she had a room; a room  with little tables, with little ornaments  scattered on little tables.
There I confessed,  with tears — I had not gone to Hampton Court.
And she, remembering other things, to me  trifles but torturing to her, showed me how life  withers when there are things we cannot share.
Soon, too, a maid came in with a note, and as  she turned to answer it and I felt my own  curiosity to know what she was writing and to  whom, I saw the first leaf fall on his grave.
I  saw us push beyond this moment, and leave it  behind us for ever.
And then sitting side by side  on the sofa we remembered inevitably what  had been said by others; “the lily of the day is  fairer far in May”; we compared Percival to a  lily — Percival whom I wanted to lose his hair,  to shock the authorities, to grow old with me;  he was already covered with lilies.
‘So the sincerity of the moment passed; so  it became symbolical; and that I could not  stand.
Let us commit any blasphemy of  laughter and criticism rather than exude this  lily-sweet glue; and cover him with phrases, I  cried.
Therefore I broke off, and Jinny, who was  without future, or speculation, but respected  the moment with complete integrity, gave her  body a flick with the whip, powdered her face  (for which I loved her), and waved to me as she  stood on the doorstep, pressing her hand to her  hair so that the wind might not disorder it, a  gesture for which I honoured her, as if it  confirmed our determination — not to let lilies  grow.
‘I observed with disillusioned clarity the  despicable nonentity of the street; its porches;  its window curtains; the drab clothes, the  cupidity and complacency of shopping women;  and old men taking the air in comforters; the  caution of people crossing; the universal  determination to go on living, when really,  fools and gulls that you are, I said, any slate  may fly from a roof, any car may swerve, for  there is neither rhyme nor reason when a  drunk man staggers about with a club in his  hand — that is all.
I was like one admitted  behind the scenes: like one shown how the  effects are produced.
I returned, however, to  my own snug home and was warned by the  parlourmaid to creep upstairs in my stockings.
The child was asleep.
I went to my room.
‘Was there no sword, nothing with which  to batter down these walls, this protection, this  begetting of children and living behind  curtains, and becoming daily more involved and  committed, with books and pictures?
Better  burn one’s life out like Louis, desiring  perfection; or like Rhoda leave us, flying past  us to the desert; or choose one out of millions  and one only like Neville; better be like Susan  and love and hate the heat of the sun or the  frost-bitten grass; or be like Jinny, honest, an  animal.
All had their rapture; their common  feeling with death; something that stood them  in stead.
Thus I visited each of my friends in  turn, trying, with fumbling fingers, to prise  open their locked caskets.
I went from one to  the other holding my sorrow — no, not my  sorrow but the incomprehensible nature of this  our life — for their inspection.
Some people go  to priests; others to poetry; I to my friends, I to  my own heart, I to seek among phrases and  fragments something unbroken — I to whom  there is not beauty enough in moon or tree; to  whom the touch of one person with another is  all, yet who cannot grasp even that, who am so  imperfect, so weak, so unspeakably lonely.
There I sat.
‘Should this be the end of the story?
a kind  of sigh?
a last ripple of the wave?
A trickle of  water in some gutter where, burbling, it dies  away?
Let me touch the table — so — and thus  recover my sense of the moment.
A sideboard  covered with cruets; a basket full of rolls; a  plate of bananas — these are comfortable  sights.
But if there are no stories, what end can  there be, or what beginning?
Life is not  susceptible perhaps to the treatment we give it  when we try to tell it.
Sitting up late at night it  seems strange not to have more control.
Pigeon-holes are not then very useful.
It is  strange how force ebbs away and away into  some dry creek.
Sitting alone, it seems we are  spent; our waters can only just surround feebly  that spike of sea-holly; we cannot reach that  further pebble so as to wet it.
It is over, we are  ended.
But wait — I sat all night waiting — an  impulse again runs through us; we rise, we toss  back a mane of white spray; we pound on the  shore; we are not to be confined.
That is, I  shaved and washed; did not wake my wife, and  had breakfast; put on my hat, and went out to  earn my living.
After Monday, Tuesday comes.
‘Yet some doubt remained, some note of  interrogation.
I was surprised, opening a door,  to find people thus occupied; I hesitated, taking  a cup of tea, whether one said milk or sugar.
And the light of the stars falling, as it falls now,  on my hand after travelling for millions upon  millions of years — I could get a cold shock  from that for a moment — not more, my  imagination is too feeble.
But some doubt  remained.
A shadow flitted through my mind  like moths’ wings among chairs and tables in a  room in the evening.
When, for example, I went  to Lincolnshire that summer to see Susan and  she advanced towards me across the garden  with the lazy movement of a half-filled sail,  with the swaying movement of a woman with  child, I thought, “It goes on; but why?” We sat  in the garden; the farm carts came up dripping  with hay; there was the usual gabble of rooks  and doves; fruit was netted and covered over;  the gardener dug.
Bees boomed down the  purple tunnels of flowers; bees embedded  themselves  on  the  golden  shields  of  sunflowers.
Little twigs were blown across the  grass.
How rhythmical, and half conscious and  like something wrapped in mist it was; but to  me hateful, like a net folding one’s limbs in its  meshes, cramping.
