If I speak, imitating their accent, they  prick their ears, waiting for me to speak again,  in order that they may place me — if I come  from Canada or Australia, I, who desire above  all things to be taken to the arms with love, am  alien, external.
I, who would wish to feel close  over me the protective waves of the ordinary,  catch with the tail of my eye some far horizon;  am aware of hats bobbing up and down in  perpetual disorder.
To me is addressed the  plaint of the wandering and distracted spirit (a  woman with bad teeth falters at the counter),  “Bring us back to the fold, we who pass so  disjectedly, bobbing up and down, past  windows with plates of ham sandwiches in the  foreground.” Yes; I will reduce you to order.
‘I will read in the book that is propped  against the bottle of Worcester sauce.
It  contains some forged rings, some perfect  statements, a few words, but poetry.
You, all of  you, ignore it.
What the dead poet said, you  have forgotten.
And I cannot translate it to you  so that its binding power ropes you in, and  makes it clear to you that you are aimless; and  the rhythm is cheap and worthless; and so  remove that degradation which, if you are  unaware of your aimlessness, pervades you,  making you senile, even while you are young.
To translate that poem so that it is easily read is  to be my endeavour.
I, the companion of Plato,  of Virgil, will knock at the grained oak door.
I  oppose to what is passing this ramrod of beaten  steel.
I will not submit to this aimless passing  of billycock hats and Homburg hats and all the  plumed and variegated head-dresses of women.
(Susan, whom I respect, would wear a plain  straw hat on a summer’s day.)
And the grinding  and the steam that runs in unequal drops down  the window pane; and the stopping and the  starting with a jerk of motor-omnibuses; and  the hesitations at counters; and the words that  trail drearily without human meaning; I will  reduce you to order.
‘My roots go down through veins of lead  and silver, through damp, marshy places that  exhale odours, to a knot made of oak roots  bound together in the centre.
Sealed and blind,  with earth stopping my ears, I have yet heard  rumours of wars; and the nightingale; have felt  the hurrying of many troops of men flocking  hither and thither in quest of civilization like  flocks of birds migrating seeking the summer; I  have seen women carrying red pitchers to the  banks of the Nile.
I woke in a garden, with a  blow on the nape of my neck, a hot kiss,  Jinny’s;  remembering  all  this  as  one  remembers confused cries and toppling pillars  and shafts of red and black in some nocturnal  conflagration.
I am for ever sleeping and  waking.
Now I sleep; now I wake.
I see the  gleaming tea-urn; the glass cases full of pale-  yellow sandwiches; the men in round coats  perched on stools at the counter; and also  behind them, eternity.
It is a stigma burnt on  my quivering flesh by a cowled man with a red-  hot iron.
I see this eating-shop against the  packed and fluttering birds’ wings, many  feathered, folded, of the past.
Hence my pursed  lips, my sickly pallor; my distasteful and  uninviting aspect as I turn my face with hatred  and bitterness upon Bernard and Neville, who  saunter  under  yew  trees;  who  inherit  armchairs; and draw their curtains close, so  that lamplight falls on their books.
‘Susan, I respect; because she sits  stitching.
She sews under a quiet lamp in a  house where the corn sighs close to the window  and gives me safety.
For I am the weakest, the  youngest of them all.
I am a child looking at his  feet and the little runnels that the stream has  made in the gravel.
That is a snail, I say; that is  a leaf.
I delight in the snails; I delight in the  leaf, I am always the youngest, the most  innocent, the most trustful.
You are all  protected.
I am naked.
When the waitress with  the plaited wreaths of hair swings past, she  deals  you  your  apricots  and  custard  unhesitatingly, like a sister.
You are her  brothers.
But when I get up, brushing the  crumbs from my waistcoat, I slip too large a tip,  a shilling, under the edge of my plate, so that  she may not find it till I am gone, and her  scorn, as she picks it up with laughter, may not  strike on me till I am past the swing-doors.’  ‘Now the wind lifts the blind,’ said Susan, ‘jars,  bowls, matting and the shabby arm-chair with  the hole in it are now become distinct.
The  usual faded ribbons sprinkle the wallpaper.
The  bird chorus is over, only one bird now sings  close to the bedroom window.
I will pull on my  stockings and go quietly past the bedroom  doors, and down through the kitchen, out  through the garden past the greenhouse into  the field.
It is still early morning.
The mist is on  the marshes.
The day is stark and stiff as a  linen shroud.
But it will soften; it will warm.
At  this hour, this still early hour, I think I am the  field, I am the barn, I am the trees; mine are  the flocks of birds, and this young hare who  leaps, at the last moment when I step almost  on him.
Mine is the heron that stretches its  vast wings lazily; and the cow that creaks as it  pushes one foot before another munching; and  the wild, swooping swallow; and the faint red in  the sky, and the green when the red fades; the  silence and the bell; the call of the man  fetching cart- horses from the fields — all are  mine.
‘I cannot be divided, or kept apart.
I was  sent to school; I was sent to Switzerland to  finish my education.
I hate linoleum; I hate fir  trees and mountains.
Let me now fling myself  on this flat ground under a pale sky where the  clouds pace slowly.
The cart grows gradually  larger as it comes along the road.
The sheep  gather in the middle of the field.
The birds  gather in the middle of the road — they need  not fly yet.
The wood smoke rises.
The  starkness of the dawn is going out of it.
Now  the day stirs.
Colour returns.
The day waves  yellow with all its crops.
The earth hangs heavy  beneath me.
‘But who am I, who lean on this gate and  watch my setter nose in a circle?
I think  sometimes (I am not twenty yet) I am not a  woman, but the light that falls on this gate, on  this ground.
I am the seasons, I think  sometimes, January, May, November; the mud,  the mist, the dawn.
I cannot be tossed about, or  float gently, or mix with other people.
Yet now,  leaning here till the gate prints my arm, I feel  the weight that has formed itself in my side.
Something  has  formed,  at  school,  in  Switzerland, some hard thing.
Not sighs and  laughter, not circling and ingenious phrases;  not Rhoda’s strange communications when she  looks past us, over our shoulders; nor Jinny’s  pirouetting, all of a piece, limbs and body.
What  I give is fell.
I cannot float gently, mixing with  other people.
I like best the stare of shepherds  met in the road; the stare of gipsy women  beside a cart in a ditch suckling their children  as I shall suckle my children.
For soon in the  hot midday when the bees hum round the  hollyhocks my lover will come.
He will stand  under the cedar tree.
To his one word I shall  answer my one word.
What has formed in me I  shall give him.
I shall have children; I shall  have maids in aprons; men with pitchforks; a  kitchen where they bring the ailing lambs to  warm in baskets, where the hams hang and the  onions glisten.
I shall be like my mother, silent  in a blue apron locking up the cupboards.
‘Now I am hungry.
I will call my setter.
I  think of crusts and bread and butter and white  plates in a sunny room.
I will go back across the  fields.
I will walk along this grass path with  strong, even strides, now swerving to avoid the  puddle, now leaping lightly to a clump.
Beads of  wet form on my rough skirt; my shoes become  supple and dark.
The stiffness has gone from  the day; it is shaded with grey, green and  umber.
The birds no longer settle on the high  road.
‘I return, like a cat or fox returning, whose  fur is grey with rime, whose pads are hardened  by the coarse earth.
I push through the  cabbages, making their leaves squeak and their  drops spill.
I sit waiting for my father’s  footsteps as he shuffles down the passage  pinching some herb between his fingers.
I pour  out cup after cup while the unopened flowers  hold themselves erect on the table among the  pots of jam, the loaves and the butter.
We are  silent.
‘I go then to the cupboard, and take the  damp bags of rich sultanas; I lift the heavy  flour on to the clean scrubbed kitchen table.
I  knead; I stretch; I pull, plunging my hands in  the warm inwards of the dough.
I let the cold  water stream fanwise through my fingers.
The  fire roars; the flies buzz in a circle.
All my  currants and rices, the silver bags and the blue  bags, are locked again in the cupboard.
The  meat is stood in the oven; the bread rises in a  soft dome under the clean towel.
I walk in the  afternoon down to the river.
All the world is  breeding.
The flies are going from grass to  grass.
The flowers are thick with pollen.
The  swans ride the stream in order.
The clouds,  warm now, sun- spotted, sweep over the hills,  leaving gold in the water, and gold on the necks  of the swans.
Pushing one foot before the  other, the cows munch their way across the  field.
I feel through the grass for the white-  domed mushroom; and break its stalk and pick  the purple orchid that grows beside it and lay  the orchid by the mushroom with the earth at  its root, and so home to make the kettle boil for  my father among the just reddened roses on  the tea-table.
‘But evening comes and the lamps are lit.
And when evening comes and the lamps are lit  they make a yellow fire in the ivy.
I sit with my  sewing by the table.
I think of Jinny; of Rhoda;  and hear the rattle of wheels on the pavement  as the farm horses plod home; I hear traffic  roaring in the evening wind.
I look at the  quivering leaves in the dark garden and think  “They dance in London.
Jinny kisses Louis”.’  ‘How strange,’ said Jinny, ‘that people  should sleep, that people should put out the  lights and go upstairs.
They have taken off their  dresses, they have put on white nightgowns.
There are no lights in any of these houses.
There is a line of chimney-pots against the sky;  and a street lamp or two burning, as lamps  burn when nobody needs them.
The only  people in the streets are poor people hurrying.
There is no one coming or going in this street;  the day is over.
A few policemen stand at the  corners.
Yet night is beginning.
I feel myself  shining in the dark.
Silk is on my knee.
My silk  legs rub smoothly together.
The stones of a  necklace lie cold on my throat.
My feet feel the  pinch of shoes.
I sit bolt upright so that my hair  may not touch the back of the seat.
I am  arrayed, I am prepared.
This is the momentary  pause; the dark moment.
The fiddlers have  lifted their bows.
‘Now the car slides to a stop.
A strip of  pavement is lighted.
The door is opening and  shutting.
People are arriving; they do not speak;  they hasten in.
There is the swishing sound of  cloaks falling in the hall.
This is the prelude,  this is the beginning.
I glance, I peep, I powder.
All is exact, prepared.
My hair is swept in one  curve.
My lips are precisely red.
I am ready now  to join men and women on the stairs, my peers.
I pass them, exposed to their gaze, as they are  to mine.
Like lightning we look but do not  soften or show signs of recognition.
Our bodies  communicate.
This is my calling.
This is my  world.
All is decided and ready; the servants,  standing here, and again here, take my name,  my fresh, my unknown name, and toss it before  me.
I enter.
‘Here are gilt chairs in the empty, the  expectant rooms, and flowers, stiller, statelier,  than flowers that grow, spread green, spread  white, against the walls.
And on one small table  is one bound book.
This is what I have dreamt;  this is what I have foretold.
I am native here.
I  tread naturally on thick carpets.
I slide easily  on smooth-polished floors, I now begin to  unfurl, in this scent, in this radiance, as a fern  when its curled leaves unfurl.
I stop.
I take  stock of this world.
I look among the groups of  unknown people.
Among the lustrous green,  pink, pearl- grey women stand upright the  bodies of men.
They are black and white; they  are grooved beneath their clothes with deep  rills.
I feel again the reflection in the window of  the tunnel; it moves.
The black-and-white  figures of unknown men look at me as I lean  forward; as I turn aside to look at a picture,  they turn too.
Their hands go fluttering to their  ties.
They touch their waistcoats, their pocket-  handkerchiefs.
They are very young.
They are  anxious to make a good impression.
I feel a  thousand capacities spring up in me.
I am arch,  gay, languid, melancholy by turns.
I am rooted,  but I flow.
All gold, flowing that way, I say to  this one, “Come.” Rippling black, I say to that  one, “No.” One breaks off from his station  under the glass cabinet.
He approaches.
He  makes towards me.
This is the most exciting  moment I have ever known.
I flutter.
I ripple.
I  stream like a plant in the river, flowing this  way, flowing that way, but rooted, so that he  may come to me.
“Come,” I say, “come.” Pale,  with dark hair, the one who is coming is  melancholy, romantic.
And I am arch and  fluent and capricious; for he is melancholy, he  is romantic.
He is here; he stands at my side.
‘Now with a little jerk, like a limpet broken  from a rock, I am broken off: I fall with him; I  am carried off.
We yield to this slow flood.
We  go in and out of this hesitating music.
Rocks  break the current of the dance; it jars, it  shivers.
In and out, we are swept now into this  large figure; it holds us together; we cannot  step outside its sinuous, its hesitating, its  abrupt, its perfectly encircling walls.
Our  bodies, his hard, mine flowing, are pressed  together within its body; it holds us together;  and then lengthening out, in smooth, in  sinuous folds, rolls us between it, on and on.
Suddenly the music breaks.
My blood runs on  but my body stands still.
The room reels past  my eyes.
It stops.
‘Come, then, let us wander whirling to the  gilt chairs.
The body is stronger than I thought.
I am dizzier than I supposed.
I do not care for  anything in the world.
I do not care for anybody  save this man whose name I do not know.
Are  we not acceptable, moon?
Are we not lovely  sitting together here, I in my satin; he in black  and white?
My peers may look at me now.
I  look straight back at you, men and women.
I  am one of you.
This is my world.
Now I take  this thin-stemmed glass and sip.
Wine has a  drastic, an astringent taste.
I cannot help  wincing as I drink.
Scent and flowers, radiance  and heat, are distilled here to a fiery, to a yellow  liquid.
Just behind my shoulder-blades some  dry thing, wide-eyed, gently closes, gradually  lulls itself to sleep.
This is rapture; this is relief.
The bar at the back of my throat lowers itself.
Words crowd and cluster and push forth one on  top of another.
It does not matter which.
They  jostle and mount on each other’s shoulders.
The single and the solitary mate, tumble and  become many.
It does not matter what I say.
Crowding, like a fluttering bird, one sentence  crosses the empty space between us.
It settles  on his lips.
I fill my glass again.
I drink.
The veil  drops between us.
I am admitted to the warmth  and privacy of another soul.
We are together,  high up, on some Alpine pass.
He stands  melancholy on the crest of the road.
I stoop.
I  pick a blue flower and fix it, standing on tiptoe  to reach him, in his coat.
There!
That is my  moment of ecstasy.
Now it is over.
‘Now slackness and indifference invade us.
Other people brush past.
We have lost  consciousness of our bodies uniting under the  table.
I also like fair-haired men with blue eyes.
The door opens.
The door goes on opening.
Now I think, next time it opens the whole of my  life will be changed.
Who comes?
But it is only  a servant, bringing glasses.
That is an old man  — I should be a child with him.
That is a great  lady — with her I should dissemble.
There are  girls of my own age, for whom I feel the drawn  swords of an honourable antagonism.
For these  are my peers.
I am a native of this world.
Here  is my risk, here is my adventure.
The door  opens.
O come, I say to this one, rippling gold  from head to heels.
“Come,” and he comes  towards me.’  ‘I shall edge behind them,’ said Rhoda, ‘as  if I saw someone I know.
But I know no one.
I  shall twitch the curtain and look at the moon.
Draughts of oblivion shall quench my agitation.
The door opens; the tiger leaps.
The door  opens; terror rushes in; terror upon terror,  pursuing me.
Let me visit furtively the  treasures I have laid apart.
Pools lie on the  other side of the world reflecting marble  columns.
The swallow dips her wing in dark  pools.
But here the door opens and people  come; they come towards me.
Throwing faint  smiles to mask their cruelty, their indifference,  they seize me.
The swallow dips her wings; the  moon rides through the blue seas alone.
I must  take his hand; I must answer.
But what answer  shall I give?
I am thrust back to stand burning  in this clumsy, this ill-fitting body, to receive  the shafts of his indifference and his scorn, I  who long for marble columns and pools on the  other side of the world where the swallow dips  her wings.
‘Night has wheeled a little further over the  chimney-pots.
I see out of the window over his  shoulder  some  unembarrassed  cat,  not  drowned in light, not trapped in silk, free to  pause, to stretch, and to move again.
I hate all  details of the individual life.
But I am fixed here  to listen.
An immense pressure is on me.
I  cannot move without dislodging the weight of  centuries.
A million arrows pierce me.
Scorn  and ridicule pierce me.
I, who could beat my  breast against the storm and let the hail choke  me joyfully, am pinned down here; am exposed.
The tiger leaps.
Tongues with their whips are  upon me.
Mobile, incessant, they flicker over  me.
I must prevaricate and fence them off with  lies.
What amulet is there against this disaster?
What face can I summon to lay cool upon this  heat?
I think of names on boxes; of mothers  from whose wide knees skirts descend; of  glades where the many-backed steep hills come  down.
Hide me, I cry, protect me, for I am the  youngest, the most naked of you all.
Jinny rides  like a gull on the wave, dealing her looks  adroitly here and there, saying this, saying that,  with truth.
But I lie; I prevaricate.
‘Alone, I rock my basins; I am mistress of  my fleet of ships.
But here, twisting the tassels  of this brocaded curtain in my hostess’s  window, I am broken into separate pieces; I am  no longer one.
What then is the knowledge that  Jinny has as she dances; the assurance that  Susan has as, stooping quietly beneath the  lamplight, she draws the white cotton through  the eye of her needle?
They say, Yes; they say,  No; they bring their fists down with a bang on  the table.
But I doubt; I tremble; I see the wild  thorn tree shake its shadow in the desert.
‘Now I will walk, as if I had an end in view,  across the room, to the balcony under the  awning.
I see the sky, softly feathered with its  sudden effulgence of moon.
I also see the  railings of the square, and two people without  faces, leaning like statues against the sky.
There is, then, a world immune from change.
When I have passed through this drawing-room  flickering with tongues that cut me like knives,  making me stammer, making me lie, I find  faces rid of features, robed in beauty.
The  lovers crouch under the plane tree.
The  policeman stands sentinel at the corner.
A man  passes.
There is, then, a world immune from  change.
But I am not composed enough,  standing on tiptoe on the verge of fire, still  scorched by the hot breath, afraid of the door  opening and the leap of the tiger, to make even  one sentence.
What I say is perpetually  contradicted.
Each time the door opens I am  interrupted.
I am not yet twenty-one.
I am to be  broken.
I am to be derided all my life.
I am to  be cast up and down among these men and  women, with their twitching faces, with their  lying tongues, like a cork on a rough sea.
Like a  ribbon of weed I am flung far every time the  door opens.
I am the foam that sweeps and fills  the uttermost rims of the rocks with whiteness;  I am also a girl, here in this room.’  The sun, risen, no longer couched on a green  mattress darting a fitful glance through watery  jewels, bared its face and looked straight over  the waves.
They fell with a regular thud.
They  fell with the concussion of horses’ hooves on  the turf.
Their spray rose like the tossing of  lances and assegais over the riders’ heads.
They  swept the beach with steel blue and diamond-  tipped water.
They drew in and out with the  energy, the muscularity, of an engine which  sweeps its force out and in again.
The sun fell  on cornfields and woods, rivers became blue  and many-plaited, lawns that sloped down to  the water’s edge became green as birds’  feathers softly ruffling their plumes.
The hills,  curved and controlled, seemed bound back by  thongs, as a limb is laced by muscles; and the  woods which bristled proudly on their flanks  were like the curt, clipped mane on the neck of  a horse.
In the garden where the trees stood, thick  over flowerbeds, ponds, and greenhouses the  birds sang in the hot sunshine, each alone.
One  sang under the bedroom window; another on  the topmost twig of the lilac bush; another on  the edge of the wall.
Each sang stridently, with  passion, with vehemence, as if to let the song  burst out of it, no matter if it shattered the song  of another bird with harsh discord.
Their round  eyes bulged with brightness; their claws  gripped the twig or rail.
They sang, exposed  without shelter, to the air and the sun,  beautiful in their new plumage, shell-veined or  brightly mailed, here barred with soft blues,  here splashed with gold, or striped with one  bright feather.
They sang as if the song were  urged out of them by the pressure of the  morning.
They sang as if the edge of being were  sharpened and must cut, must split the  softness of the blue-green light, the dampness  of the wet earth; the fumes and steams of the  greasy kitchen vapour; the hot breath of  mutton and beef; the richness of pastry and  fruit; the damp shreds and peelings thrown  from the kitchen bucket, from which a slow  steam oozed on the rubbish heap.
On all the  sodden, the damp-spotted, the curled with  wetness, they descended, dry-beaked, ruthless,  abrupt.
They swooped suddenly from the lilac  bough or the fence.
They spied a snail and  tapped the shell against a stone.
They tapped  furiously, methodically, until the shell broke  and something slimy oozed from the crack.
They swept and soared sharply in flights high  into the air, twittering short, sharp notes, and  perched in the upper branches of some tree,  and looked down upon leaves and spires  beneath, and the country white with blossom,  flowing with grass, and the sea which beat like  a drum that raises a regiment of plumed and  turbaned soldiers.
Now and again their songs  ran together in swift scales like the interlacings  of a mountain stream whose waters, meeting,  foam and then mix, and hasten quicker and  quicker down the same channel, brushing the  same broad leaves.
But there is a rock; they  sever.
The sun fell in sharp wedges inside the  room.
Whatever the light touched became  dowered with a fanatical existence.
A plate was  like a white lake.
A knife looked like a dagger of  ice.
Suddenly tumblers revealed themselves  upheld by streaks of light.
Tables and chairs  rose to the surface as if they had been sunk  under water and rose, filmed with red, orange,  purple like the bloom on the skin of ripe fruit.
The veins on the glaze of the china, the grain of  the wood, the fibres of the matting became  more and more finely engraved.
Everything was  without shadow.
A jar was so green that the eye  seemed sucked up through a funnel by its  intensity and stuck to it like a limpet.
Then  shapes took on mass and edge.
Here was the  boss of a chair; here the bulk of a cupboard.
And as the light increased, flocks of shadow  were driven before it and conglomerated and  hung in many-pleated folds in the background.
‘How fair, how strange,’ said Bernard,  ‘glittering, many-pointed and many-domed  London lies before me under mist.
Guarded by  gasometers, by factory chimneys, she lies  sleeping as we approach.
She folds the ant-heap  to her breast.
All cries, all clamour, are softly  enveloped in silence.
Not Rome herself looks  more majestic.
But we are aimed at her.
Already  her maternal somnolence is uneasy.
Ridges,  fledged with houses rise from the mist.
Factories, cathedrals, glass domes, institutions  and theatres erect themselves.
The early train  from the north is hurled at her like a missile.
We draw a curtain as we pass.
Blank expectant  faces stare at us as we rattle and flash through  stations.
Men clutch their newspapers a little  tighter, as our wind sweeps them, envisaging  death.
But we roar on.
We are about to explode  in the flanks of the city like a shell in the side  of some ponderous, maternal, majestic animal.
She hums and murmurs; she awaits us.
‘Meanwhile as I stand looking from the  train window, I feel strangely, persuasively,  that because of my great happiness (being  engaged to be married) I am become part of  this speed, this missile hurled at the city.
I am  numbed to tolerance and acquiescence.
My  dear sir, I could say, why do you fidget, taking  down your suitcase and pressing into it the cap  that you have worn all night?
Nothing we can  do will avail.
Over us all broods a splendid  unanimity.
We are enlarged and solemnized  and brushed into uniformity as with the grey  wing of some enormous goose (it is a fine but  colourless morning) because we have only one  desire — to arrive at the station.
I do not want  the train to stop with a thud.
I do not want the  connection which has bound us together sitting  opposite each other all night long to be broken.
I do not want to feel that hate and rivalry have  resumed their sway; and different desires.
Our  community in the rushing train, sitting  together with only one wish, to arrive at  Euston, was very welcome.
But behold!
It is  over.
We have attained our desire.
We have  drawn up at the platform.
Hurry and confusion  and the wish to be first through the gate into  the lift assert themselves.
But I do not wish to  be first through the gate, to assume the burden  of individual life.
I, who have been since  Monday, when she accepted me, charged in  every nerve with a sense of identity, who could  not see a tooth- brush in a glass without saying,  “My toothbrush”, now wish to unclasp my  hands and let fall my possessions, and merely  stand here in the street, taking no part,  watching the omnibuses, without desire;  without envy; with what would be boundless  curiosity about human destiny if there were  any longer an edge to my mind.
But it has none.
I have arrived; am accepted.
I ask nothing.
‘Having dropped off satisfied like a child  from the breast, I am at liberty now to sink  down, deep, into what passes, this omnipresent,  general life.
(How much, let me note, depends  upon trousers; the intelligent head is entirely  handicapped by shabby trousers.)
One observes  curious hesitations at the door of the lift.
This  way, that way, the other?
Then individuality  asserts itself.
They are off.
They are all impelled  by some necessity.
Some miserable affair of  keeping an appointment, of buying a hat, severs  these beautiful human beings once so united.
For myself, I have no aim.
I have no ambition.
I  will let myself be carried on by the general  impulse.
The surface of my mind slips along  like a pale-grey stream, reflecting what passes.
I  cannot remember my past, my nose, or the  colour of my eyes, or what my general opinion  of myself is.
Only in moments of emergency, at  a crossing, at a kerb, the wish to preserve my  body springs out and seizes me and stops me,  here, before this omnibus.
We insist, it seems,  on living.
Then again, indifference descends.
The roar of the traffic, the passage of  undifferentiated faces, this way and that way,  drugs me into dreams; rubs the features from  faces.
People might walk through me.
And,  what is this moment of time, this particular day  in which I have found myself caught?
The  growl of traffic might be any uproar — forest  trees or the roar of wild beasts.
Time has  whizzed back an inch or two on its reel; our  short progress has been cancelled.
I think also  that our bodies are in truth naked.
We are only  lightly covered with buttoned cloth; and  beneath these pavements are shells, bones and  silence.
‘It is, however, true that my dreaming, my  tentative advance like one carried beneath the  surface of a stream, is interrupted, torn, pricked  and plucked at by sensations, spontaneous and  irrelevant,  of  curiosity,  greed,  desire,  irresponsible as in sleep.
(I covet that bag —  etc.)
No, but I wish to go under; to visit the  profound depths; once in a while to exercise my  prerogative not always to act, but to explore; to  hear vague, ancestral sounds of boughs  creaking, of mammoths; to indulge impossible  desires to embrace the whole world with the  arms of understanding — impossible to those  who act.
Am I not, as I walk, trembling with  strange oscillations and vibrations of sympathy,  which, unmoored as I am from a private being,  bid me embrace these engrossed flocks; these  starers and trippers; these errand-boys and  furtive and fugitive girls who, ignoring their  doom, look in at shop-windows?
But I am  aware of our ephemeral passage.
‘It is, however, true that I cannot deny a  sense that life for me is now mysteriously  prolonged.
Is it that I may have children, may  cast a fling of seed wider, beyond this  generation, this doom- encircled population,  shuffling each other in endless competition  along the street?
My daughters shall come  here, in other summers; my sons shall turn  new fields.
Hence we are not raindrops, soon  dried by the wind; we make gardens blow and  forests roar; we come up differently, for ever  and ever.
This, then, serves to explain my  confidence, my central stability, otherwise so  monstrously absurd as I breast the stream of  this crowded thoroughfare, making always a  passage for myself between people’s bodies,  taking advantage of safe moments to cross.
It is  not vanity; for I am emptied of ambition; I do  not remember my special gifts, or idiosyncrasy,  or the marks I bear on my person; eyes, nose or  mouth.
I am not, at this moment, myself.
‘Yet behold, it returns.
One cannot  extinguish that persistent smell.
It steals in  through some crack in the structure — one’s  identity.
I am not part of the street — no, I  observe the street.
One splits off, therefore.
For  instance, up that back street a girl stands  waiting; for whom?
A romantic story.
