Heaven be praised for solitude that has  removed the pressure of the eye, the  solicitation of the body, and all need of lies and  phrases.
‘My book, stuffed with phrases, has  dropped to the floor.
It lies under the table, to  be swept up by the charwoman when she  comes wearily at dawn looking for scraps of  paper, old tram tickets, and here and there a  note screwed into a ball and left with the litter  to be swept up.
What is the phrase for the  moon?
And the phrase for love?
By what name  are we to call death?
I do not know.
I need a  little language such as lovers use, words of one  syllable such as children speak when they come  into the room and find their mother sewing and  pick up some scrap of bright wool, a feather, or  a shred of chintz.
I need a howl; a cry.
When  the storm crosses the marsh and sweeps over  me where I lie in the ditch unregarded I need  no words.
Nothing neat.
Nothing that comes  down with all its feet on the floor.
None of  those resonances and lovely echoes that break  and chime from nerve to nerve in our breasts,  making wild music, false phrases.
I have done  with phrases.
‘How much better is silence; the coffee-  cup, the table.
How much better to sit by myself  like the solitary sea-bird that opens its wings on  the stake.
Let me sit here for ever with bare  things, this coffee-cup, this knife, this fork,  things in themselves, myself being myself.
Do  not come and worry me with your hints that it  is time to shut the shop and be gone.
I would  willingly give all my money that you should not  disturb me but will let me sit on and on, silent,  alone.
‘But now the head waiter, who has finished  his own meal, appears and frowns; he takes his  muffler from his pocket and ostentatiously  makes ready to go.
They must go; must put up  the shutters, most fold the table-cloths, and  give one brush with a wet mop under the  tables.
‘Curse you then.
However beat and done  with it all I am, I must haul myself up, and find  the particular coat that belongs to me; must  push my arms into the sleeves; must muffle  myself up against the night air and be off.
I, I, I,  tired as I am, spent as I am, and almost worn  out with all this rubbing of my nose along the  surfaces of things, even I, an elderly man who  is getting rather heavy and dislikes exertion,  must take myself off and catch some last train.
‘Again I see before me the usual street.
The  canopy of civilization is burnt out.
The sky is  dark as polished whalebone.
But there is a  kindling in the sky whether of lamplight or of  dawn.
There is a stir of some sort — sparrows  on plane trees somewhere chirping.
There is a  sense of the break of day.
I will not call it dawn.
What is dawn in the city to an elderly man  standing in the street looking up rather dizzily  at the sky?
Dawn is some sort of whitening of  the sky; some sort of renewal.
Another day;  another Friday; another twentieth of March,  January, or September.
Another general  awakening.
The stars draw back and are  extinguished.
The bars deepen themselves  between the waves.
The film of mist thickens  on the fields.
A redness gathers on the roses,  even on the pale rose that hangs by the  bedroom window.
A bird chirps.
Cottagers light  their early candles.
Yes, this is the eternal  renewal, the incessant rise and fall and fall and  rise again.
‘And in me too the wave rises.
It swells; it  arches its back.
I am aware once more of a new  desire, something rising beneath me like the  proud horse whose rider first spurs and then  pulls him back.
What enemy do we now  perceive advancing against us, you whom I ride  now, as we stand pawing this stretch of  pavement?
It is death.
Death is the enemy.
It is  death against whom I ride with my spear  couched and my hair flying back like a young  man’s, like Percival’s, when he galloped in  India.
I strike spurs into my horse.
Against you  I will fling myself, unvanquished and  unyielding, O Death!’  The waves broke on the shore.
