Then another cloud was caught in  the light and another and another, so that the  waves beneath were arrow-struck with fiery  feathered darts that shot erratically across the  quivering blue.
The topmost leaves of the tree were crisped  in the sun.
They rustled stiffly in the random  breeze.
The birds sat still save that they flicked  their heads sharply from side to side.
Now they  paused in their song as if glutted with sound, as  if the fullness of midday had gorged them.
The  dragon-fly poised motionless over a reed, then  shot its blue stitch further through the air.
The  far hum in the distance seemed made of the  broken tremor of fine wings dancing up and  down on the horizon.
The river water held the  reeds now fixed as if glass had hardened round  them; and then the glass wavered and the reeds  swept low.
Pondering, sunken headed, the  cattle stood in the fields and cumbrously  moved one foot and then another.
In the bucket  near the house the tap stopped dripping, as if  the bucket were full, and then the tap dripped  one, two, three separate drops in succession.
The windows showed erratically spots of  burning fire, the elbow of one branch, and then  some tranquil space of pure clarity.
The blind  hung red at the window’s edge and within the  room daggers of light fell upon chairs and  tables making cracks across their lacquer and  polish.
The green pot bulged enormously, with  its white window elongated in its side.
Light  driving darkness before it spilt itself profusely  upon the corners and bosses; and yet heaped up  darkness in mounds of unmoulded shape.
The waves massed themselves, curved  their backs and crashed.
Up spurted stones and  shingle.
They swept round the rocks, and the  spray, leaping high, spattered the walls of a  cave that had been dry before, and left pools  inland, where some fish stranded lashed its tail  as the wave drew back.
‘I have signed my name,’ said Louis, ‘already  twenty times.
I, and again I, and again I.
Clear,  firm, unequivocal, there it stands, my name.
Clear-cut and unequivocal am I too.
Yet a vast  inheritance of experience is packed in me.
I  have lived thousands of years.
I am like a worm  that has eaten its way through the wood of a  very old oak beam.
But now I am compact; now  I am gathered together this fine morning.
‘The sun shines from a clear sky.
But  twelve o’clock brings neither rain nor sunshine.
It is the hour when Miss Johnson brings me  my letters in a wire tray.
Upon these white  sheets I indent my name.
The whisper of  leaves, water running down gutters, green  depths flecked with dahlias or zinnias; I, now a  duke, now Plato, companion of Socrates; the  tramp of dark men and yellow men migrating  east, west, north and south; the eternal  procession, women going with attaché cases  down the Strand as they went once with  pitchers to the Nile; all the furled and close-  packed leaves of my many-folded life are now  summed in my name; incised cleanly and  barely on the sheet.
Now a full-grown man;  now upright standing in sun or rain.
I must  drop heavy as a hatchet and cut the oak with  my sheer weight, for if I deviate, glancing this  way, or that way, I shall fall like snow and be  wasted.
‘I am half in love with the typewriter and  the telephone.
With letters and cables and brief  but courteous commands on the telephone to  Paris, Berlin, New York, I have fused my many  lives into one; I have helped by my assiduity  and decision to score those lines on the map  there by which the different parts of the world  are laced together.
I love punctually at ten to  come into my room; I love the purple glow of  the dark mahogany; I love the table and its  sharp edge; and the smooth-running drawers.
I  love the telephone with its lip stretched to my  whisper, and the date on the wall; and the  engagement book.
Mr Prentice at four; Mr  Eyres sharp at four-thirty.
‘I like to be asked to come to Mr  Burchard’s private room and report on our  commitments to China.
I hope to inherit an  arm-chair and a Turkey carpet.
My shoulder is  to the wheel; I roll the dark before me,  spreading commerce where there was chaos in  the far parts of the world.
If I press on — from  chaos making order, I shall find myself where  Chatham stood, and Pitt, Burke and Sir Robert  Peel.
Thus I expunge certain stains, and erase  old defilements; the woman who gave me a flag  from the top of the Christmas tree; my accent;  beatings and other tortures; the boasting boys;  my father, a banker at Brisbane.
‘I have read my poet in an eating-house,  and, stirring my coffee, listened to the clerks  making bets at the little tables, watched the  women hesitating at the counter.
I said that  nothing should be irrelevant, like a piece of  brown paper dropped casually on the floor.
I  said their journeys should have an end in view;  they should earn their two pound ten a week at  the command of an august master; some hand,  some robe, should fold us about in the evening.
When I have healed these fractures and  comprehended these monstrosities so that they  need neither excuse nor apology, which both  waste our strength, I shall give back to the  street and the eating-shop what they lost when  they fell on these hard times and broke on  these stony beaches.
I shall assemble a few  words and forge round us a hammered ring of  beaten steel.
‘But now I have not a moment to spare.
There is no respite here, no shadow made of  quivering leaves, or alcove to which one can  retreat from the sun, to sit, with a lover, in the  cool of the evening.
The weight of the world is  on our shoulders; its vision is through our eyes;  if we blink or look aside, or turn back to finger  what Plato said or remember Napoleon and his  conquests, we inflict on the world the injury of  some obliquity.
This is life; Mr Prentice at four;  Mr Eyres at four-thirty.
I like to hear the soft  rush of the lift and the thud with which it stops  on my landing and the heavy male tread of  responsible feet down the corridors.
So by dint  of our united exertions we send ships to the  remotest parts of the globe; replete with  lavatories and gymnasiums.
The weight of the  world is on our shoulders.
This is life.
If I press  on, I shall inherit a chair and a rug; a place in  Surrey with glass houses, and some rare  conifer, melon or flowering tree which other  merchants will envy.
‘Yet I still keep my attic room.
There I open  the usual little book; there I watch the rain  glisten on the tiles till they shine like a  policeman’s waterproof; there I see the broken  windows in poor people’s houses; the lean cats;  some slattern squinting in a cracked looking-  glass as she arranges her face for the street  corner; there Rhoda sometimes comes.
For we  are lovers.
‘Percival has died (he died in Egypt; he  died in Greece; all deaths are one death).
Susan  has children; Neville mounts rapidly to the  conspicuous heights.
Life passes.
The clouds  change perpetually over our houses.
I do this,  do that, and again do this and then that.
Meeting and parting, we assemble different  forms, make different patterns.
But if I do not  nail these impressions to the board and out of  the many men in me make one; exist here and  now and not in streaks and patches, like  scattered snow wreaths on far mountains; and  ask Miss Johnson as I pass through the office  about the movies and take my cup of tea and  accept also my favourite biscuit, then I shall fall  like snow and be wasted.
‘Yet when six o’clock comes and I touch my  hat to the commissionaire, being always too  effusive in ceremony since I desire so much to  be accepted; and struggle, leaning against the  wind, buttoned up, with my jaws blue and my  eyes running water, I wish that a little typist  would cuddle on my knees; I think that my  favourite dish is liver and bacon; and so am apt  to wander to the river, to the narrow streets  where there are frequent public-houses, and  the shadows of ships passing at the end of the  street, and women fighting.
But I say to myself,  recovering my sanity, Mr Prentice at four; Mr  Eyres at four-thirty.
The hatchet must fall on  the block; the oak must be cleft to the centre.
The weight of the world is on my shoulders.
Here is the pen and the paper; on the letters in  the wire basket I sign my name, I, I, and again  I.’  ‘Summer comes, and winter,’ said Susan.
‘The seasons pass.
The pear fills itself and  drops from the tree.
The dead leaf rests on its  edge.
But steam has obscured the window.
I sit  by the fire watching the kettle boil.
I see the  pear tree through the streaked steam on the  window-pane.
‘Sleep, sleep, I croon, whether it is summer  or winter, May or November.
Sleep I sing — I,  who am unmelodious and hear no music save  rustic music when a dog barks, a bell tinkles, or  wheels crunch upon the gravel.
I sing my song  by the fire like an old shell murmuring on the  beach.
Sleep, sleep, I say, warning off with my  voice all who rattle milk-cans, fire at rooks,  shoot rabbits, or in any way bring the shock of  destruction near this wicker cradle, laden with  soft limbs, curled under a pink coverlet.
‘I have lost my indifference, my blank eyes,  my pear-shaped eyes that saw to the root.
I am  no longer January, May or any other season,  but am all spun to a fine thread round the  cradle, wrapping in a cocoon made of my own  blood the delicate limbs of my baby.
Sleep, I  say, and feel within me uprush some wilder,  darker violence, so that I would fell down with  one blow any intruder, any snatcher, who  should break into this room and wake the  sleeper.
‘I pad about the house all day long in apron  and slippers, like my mother who died of  cancer.
Whether it is summer, whether it is  winter, I no longer know by the moor grass, and  the heath flower; only by the steam on the  window-pane, or the frost on the window- pane.
When the lark peels high his ring of sound and  it falls through the air like an apple paring, I  stoop; I feed my baby.
I, who used to walk  through beech woods noting the jay’s feather  turning blue as it falls, past the shepherd and  the tramp, who stared at the woman squatted  beside a tilted cart in a ditch, go from room to  room with a duster.
Sleep, I say, desiring sleep  to fall like a blanket of down and cover these  weak limbs; demanding that life shall sheathe  its claws and gird its lightning and pass by,  making of my own body a hollow, a warm  shelter for my child to sleep in.
Sleep, I say,  sleep.
Or I go to the window, I look at the  rook’s high nest; and the pear tree.
“His eyes  will see when mine are shut,” I think.
“I shall  go mixed with them beyond my body and shall  see India.
He will come home, bringing  trophies to be laid at my feet.
He will increase  my possessions.”  ‘But I never rise at dawn and see the purple  drops in the cabbage leaves; the red drops in  the roses.
I do not watch the setter nose in a  circle, or lie at night watching the leaves hide  the stars and the stars move and the leaves  hang still.
The butcher calls; the milk has to be  stood under a shade lest it should sour.
‘Sleep, I say, sleep, as the kettle boils and  its breath comes thicker and thicker issuing in  one jet from the spout.
So life fills my veins.
So  life pours through my limbs.
So I am driven  forward, till I could cry, as I move from dawn to  dusk opening and shutting, “No more.
I am  glutted with natural happiness.” Yet more will  come, more children; more cradles, more  baskets in the kitchen and hams ripening; and  onions glistening; and more beds of lettuce and  potatoes.
I am blown like a leaf by the gale;  now brushing the wet grass, now whirled up.
I  am glutted with natural happiness; and wish  sometimes that the fullness would pass from  me and the weight of the sleeping house rise,  when we sit reading, and I stay the thread at  the eye of my needle.
The lamp kindles a fire in  the dark pane.
A fire burns in the heart of the  ivy.
I see a lit-up street in the evergreens.
I hear  traffic in the brush of the wind down the lane,  and broken voices, and laughter, and Jinny who  cries as the door opens, “Come!
Come!”  ‘But no sound breaks the silence of our  house, where the fields sigh close to the door.
The wind washes through the elm trees; a moth  hits the lamp; a cow lows; a crack of sound  starts in the rafter, and I push my head through  the needle and murmur, “Sleep”.’  ‘Now is the moment,’ said Jinny.
‘Now we  have met, and have come together.
Now let us  talk, let us tell stories.
Who is he?
Who is she?
I am infinitely curious and do not know what is  to come.
If you, whom I meet for the first time,  were to say to me, “The coach starts at four  from Piccadilly,” I would not stay to fling a few  necessaries in a bandbox, but would come at  once.
‘Let us sit here under the cut flowers, on  the sofa by the picture.
Let us decorate our  Christmas tree with facts and again with facts.
People are so soon gone; let us catch them.
That man there, by the cabinet; he lives you  say, surrounded by china pots.
Break one and  you shatter a thousand pounds.
And he loved a  girl in Rome and she left him.
Hence the pots,  old junk found in lodging-houses or dug from  the desert sands.
And since beauty must be  broken daily to remain beautiful, and he is  static, his life stagnates in a china sea.
It is  strange though; for once as a young man, he sat  on damp ground and drank rum with soldiers.
‘One must be quick and add facts deftly,  like toys to a tree, fixing them with a twist of  the fingers.
He stoops, how he stoops, even  over an azalea.
He stoops over the old woman  even, because she wears diamonds in her ears,  and, bundling about her estate in a pony  carriage, directs who is to be helped, what tree  felled, and who turned out tomorrow.
(I have  lived my life, I must tell you, all these years,  and I am now past thirty, perilously, like a  mountain goat, leaping from crag to crag; I do  not settle long anywhere; I do not attach myself  to one person in particular; but you will find  that if I raise my arm, some figure at once  breaks off and will come.)
And that man is a  judge; and that man is a millionaire, and that  man, with the eyeglass, shot his governess  through the heart with an arrow when he was  ten years old.
Afterwards he rode through  deserts  with  despatches,  took  part  in  revolutions and now collects materials for a  history of his mother’s family, long settled in  Norfolk.
That little man with a blue chin has a  right hand that is withered.
But why?
We do  not know.
That woman, you whisper discreetly,  with the pearl pagodas hanging from her ears,  was the pure flame who lit the life of one of our  statesmen; now since his death she sees ghosts,  tells fortunes, and has adopted a coffee-  coloured youth whom she calls the Messiah.
That man with the drooping moustache, like a  cavalry officer, lived a life of the utmost  debauchery (it is all in some memoir) until one  day he met a stranger in a train who converted  him between Edinburgh and Carlisle by reading  the Bible.
‘Thus, in a few seconds, deftly, adroitly, we  decipher the hieroglyphs written on other  people’s faces.
Here, in this room, are the  abraded and battered shells cast on the shore.
The door goes on opening.
The room fills and  fills with knowledge, anguish, many kinds of  ambition, much indifference, some despair.
Between us, you say, we could build cathedrals,  dictate policies, condemn men to death, and  administer the affairs of several public offices.
The common fund of experience is very deep.
We have between us scores of children of both  sexes, whom we are educating, going to see at  school with the measles, and bringing up to  inherit our houses.
In one way or another we  make this day, this Friday, some by going to the  Law Courts; others to the city; others to the  nursery; others by marching and forming fours.
A million hands stitch, raise hods with bricks.
The activity is endless.
And tomorrow it begins  again; tomorrow we make Saturday.
Some take  train for France; others ship for India.
Some  will never come into this room again.
One may  die tonight.
Another will beget a child.
From us  every sort of building, policy, venture, picture,  poem, child, factory, will spring.
Life comes; life  goes; we make life.
So you say.
‘But we who live in the body see with the  body’s imagination things in outline.
I see  rocks in bright sunshine.
I cannot take these  facts into some cave and, shading my eyes,  grade their yellows, blues, umbers into one  substance.
I cannot remain seated for long.
I  must jump up and go.
The coach may start  from Piccadilly.
I drop all these facts —  diamonds, withered hands, china pots and the  rest of it — as a monkey drops nuts from its  naked paws.
I cannot tell you if life is this or  that.
I am going to push out into the  heterogeneous crowd.
I am going to be  buffeted; to be flung up, and flung down,  among men, like a ship on the sea.
‘For now my body, my companion, which is  always sending its signals, the rough black  “No”, the golden “Come”, in rapid running  arrows of sensation, beckons.
Someone moves.
Did I raise my arm?
Did I look?
Did my yellow  scarf with the strawberry spots float and signal?
He has broken from the wall.
He follows.
I am  pursued through the forest.
All is rapt, all is  nocturnal, and the parrots go screaming  through the branches.
All my senses stand  erect.
Now I feel the roughness of the fibre of  the curtain through which I push; now I feel  the cold iron railing and its blistered paint  beneath my palm.
Now the cool tide of  darkness breaks its waters over me.
We are out  of doors.
Night opens; night traversed by  wandering moths; night hiding lovers roaming  to adventure.
I smell roses; I smell violets; I see  red and blue just hidden.
Now gravel is under  my shoes; now grass.
Up reel the tall backs of  houses guilty with lights.
All London is uneasy  with flashing lights.
Now let us sing our love  song — Come, come, come.
Now my gold signal  is like a dragonfly flying taut.
Jug, jug, jug, I  sing like the nightingale whose melody is  crowded in the too narrow passage of her  throat.
Now I hear crash and rending of boughs  and the crack of antlers as if the beasts of the  forest were all hunting, all rearing high and  plunging down among the thorns.
One has  pierced me.
One is driven deep within me.
‘And velvet flowers and leaves whose  coolness has been stood in water wash me  round, and sheathe me, embalming me.’  ‘Why, look,’ said Neville, ‘at the clock  ticking on the mantelpiece?
Time passes, yes.
And we grow old.
But to sit with you, alone with  you, here in London, in this firelit room, you  there, I here, is all.
The world ransacked to its  uttermost ends, and all its heights stripped and  gathered of their flowers, holds no more.
Look  at the firelight running up and down the gold  thread in the curtain.
The fruit it circles droops  heavy.
It falls on the toe of your boot, it gives  your face a red rim — I think it is the firelight  and not your face; I think those are books  against the wall, and that a curtain, and that  perhaps an armchair.
But when you come  everything changes.
The cups and saucers  changed when you came in this morning.
There  can be no doubt, I thought, pushing aside the  newspaper, that our mean lives, unsightly as  they are, put on splendour and have meaning  only under the eyes of love.
‘I rose.
I had done my breakfast.
There was  the whole day before us, and as it was fine,  tender, non-committal, we walked through the  Park to the Embankment, along the Strand to  St Paul’s, then to the shop where I bought an  umbrella, always talking, and now and then  stopping to look.
But can this last?
I said to  myself, by a lion in Trafalgar Square, by the lion  seen once and for ever; — so I revisit my past  life, scene by scene; there is an elm tree, and  there lies Percival.
For ever and ever, I swore.
Then darted in the usual doubt.
I clutched your  hand.
You left me.
The descent into the Tube  was like death.
We were cut up, we were  dissevered by all those faces and the hollow  wind that seemed to roar down there over  desert boulders.
I sat staring in my own room.
By five I knew that you were faithless.
I  snatched the telephone and the buzz, buzz,  buzz of its stupid voice in your empty room  battered my heart down, when the door opened  and there you stood.
That was the most perfect  of our meetings.
But these meetings, these  partings, finally destroy us.
‘Now this room seems to me central,  something scooped out of the eternal night.
Outside lines twist and intersect, but round us,  wrapping us about.
Here we are centred.
Here  we can be silent, or speak without raising our  voices.
Did you notice that and then that?
we  say.
He said that, meaning.
.
.
.
She hesitated,  and I believe suspected.
Anyhow, I heard  voices, a sob on the stair late at night.
It is the  end of their relationship.
Thus we spin round  us infinitely fine filaments and construct a  system.
Plato and Shakespeare are included,  also quite obscure people, people of no  importance whatsoever.
I hate men who wear  crucifixes on the left side of their waistcoats.
I  hate ceremonies and lamentations and the sad  figure of Christ trembling beside another  trembling and sad figure.
Also the pomp and  the indifference and the emphasis, always on  the wrong place, of people holding forth under  chandeliers in full evening dress, wearing stars  and decorations.
Some spray in a hedge,  though, or a sunset over a flat winter field, or  again the way some old woman sits, arms  akimbo, in an omnibus with a basket — those  we point at for the other to look at.
It is so vast  an alleviation to be able to point for another to  look at.
And then not to talk.
To follow the dark  paths of the mind and enter the past, to visit  books, to brush aside their branches and break  off some fruit.
And you take it and marvel, as I  take the careless movements of your body and  marvel at its ease, its power — how you fling  open windows and are dexterous with your  hands.
For alas!
my mind is a little impeded, it  soon tires; I fall damp, perhaps disgusting, at  the goal.
‘Alas!
I could not ride about India in a sun  helmet and return to a bungalow.
I cannot  tumble, as you do, like half-naked boys on the  deck of a ship, squirting each other with hose-  pipes.
I want this fire, I want this chair.
I want  someone to sit beside me after the day’s pursuit  and all its anguish, after its listenings, and its  waitings, and its suspicions.
After quarrelling  and reconciliation I need privacy — to be alone  with you, to set this hubbub in order.
For I am  as neat as a cat in my habits.
We must oppose  the waste and deformity of the world, its  crowds eddying round and round disgorged and  trampling.
One must slip paper- knives, even,  exactly through the pages of novels, and tie up  packets of letters neatly with green silk, and  brush up the cinders with a hearth broom.
Everything must be done to rebuke the horror  of deformity.
Let us read writers of Roman  severity and virtue; let us seek perfection  through the sand.
Yes, but I love to slip the  virtue and severity of the noble Romans under  the grey light of your eyes, and dancing grasses  and summer breezes and the laughter and  shouts of boys at play — of naked cabin-boys  squirting each other with hosepipes on the  decks of ships.
Hence I am not a disinterested  seeker, like Louis, after perfection through the  sand.
Colours always stain the page; clouds  pass over it.
And the poem, I think, is only your  voice speaking.
Alcibiades, Ajax, Hector and  Percival are also you.
They loved riding, they  risked their lives wantonly, they were not great  readers either.
But you are not Ajax or Percival.
They did not wrinkle their noses and scratch  their foreheads with your precise gesture.
You  are you.
That is what consoles me for the lack  of many things — I am ugly, I am weak — and  the depravity of the world, and the flight of  youth and Percival’s death, and bitterness and  rancour and envies innumerable.
‘But if one day you do not come after  breakfast, if one day I see you in some looking-  glass perhaps looking after another, if the  telephone buzzes and buzzes in your empty  room, I shall then, after unspeakable anguish, I  shall then — for there is no end to the folly of  the human heart — seek another, find another,  you.
Meanwhile, let us abolish the ticking of  time’s clock with one blow.
Come closer.’  The sun had now sunk lower in the sky.
The  islands of cloud had gained in density and drew  themselves across the sun so that the rocks  went suddenly black, and the trembling sea  holly lost its blue and turned silver, and  shadows were blown like grey cloths over the  sea.
The waves no longer visited the further  pools or reached the dotted black line which lay  irregularly upon the beach.
The sand was pearl  white, smoothed and shining.
Birds swooped  and circled high up in the air.
Some raced in the  furrows of the wind and turned and sliced  through them as if they were one body cut into  a thousand shreds.
Birds fell like a net  descending on the tree-tops.
Here one bird  taking its way alone made wing for the marsh  and sat solitary on a white stake, opening its  wings and shutting them.
Some petals had fallen in the garden.
They  lay shell-shaped on the earth.
The dead leaf no  longer stood upon its edge, but had been blown,  now running, now pausing, against some stalk.
Through all the flowers the same wave of light  passed in a sudden flaunt and flash as if a fin  cut the green glass of a lake.
Now and again  some level and masterly blast blew the  multitudinous leaves up and down and then, as  the wind flagged, each blade regained its  identity.
The flowers, burning their bright discs  in the sun, flung aside the sunlight as the wind  tossed them, and then some heads too heavy to  rise again drooped slightly.
The afternoon sun warmed the fields,  poured blue into the shadows and reddened the  corn.
A deep varnish was laid like a lacquer over  the fields.
A cart, a horse, a flock of rooks —  whatever moved in it was rolled round in gold.
If a cow moved a leg it stirred ripples of red  gold, and its horns seemed lined with light.
Sprays of flaxen-haired corn lay on the hedges,  brushed from the shaggy carts that came up  from the meadows short legged and primeval  looking.
The round-headed clouds never  dwindled as they bowled along, but kept every  atom of their rotundity.
Now, as they passed,  they caught a whole village in the fling of their  net and, passing, let it fly free again.
Far away  on the horizon, among the million grains of  blue-grey dust, burnt one pane, or stood the  single line of one steeple or one tree.
The red curtains and the white blinds blew  in and out, flapping against the edge of the  window, and the light which entered by flaps  and breadths unequally had in it some brown  tinge, and some abandonment as it blew  through the blowing curtains in gusts.
Here it  browned a cabinet, there reddened a chair, here  it made the window waver in the side of the  green jar.
All for a moment wavered and bent in  uncertainty and ambiguity, as if a great moth  sailing through the room had shadowed the  immense solidity of chairs and tables with  floating wings.
‘And time,’ said Bernard, ‘lets fall its drop.
The  drop that has formed on the roof of the soul  falls.
On the roof of my mind time, forming,  lets fall its drop.
Last week, as I stood shaving,  the drop fell.
I, standing with my razor in my  hand, became suddenly aware of the merely  habitual nature of my action (this is the drop  forming)  and  congratulated  my  hands,  ironically, for keeping at it.
Shave, shave, shave,  I said.
Go on shaving.
The drop fell.
All through  the day’s work, at intervals, my mind went to  an empty place, saying, “What is lost?
What is  over?” And “Over and done with,” I muttered,  “over and done with,” solacing myself with  words.
People noticed the vacuity of my face  and the aimlessness of my conversation.
The  last words of my sentence tailed away.
And as I  buttoned on my coat to go home I said more  dramatically, “I have lost my youth.”  ‘It is curious how, at every crisis, some  phrase which does not fit insists upon coming  to the rescue — the penalty of living in an old  civilization with a notebook.
This drop falling  has nothing to do with losing my youth.
This  drop falling is time tapering to a point.
Time,  which is a sunny pasture covered with a  dancing light, time, which is widespread as a  field at midday, becomes pendant.
Time tapers  to a point.
As a drop falls from a glass heavy  with some sediment, time falls.
These are the  true cycles, these are the true events.
Then as if  all the luminosity of the atmosphere were  withdrawn I see to the bare bottom.
I see what  habit covers.
I lie sluggish in bed for days.
I  dine out and gape like a codfish.
I do not  trouble to finish my sentences, and my actions,  usually so uncertain, acquire a mechanical  precision.
On this occasion, passing an office, I  went in and bought, with all the composure of a  mechanical figure, a ticket for Rome.
‘Now I sit on a stone seat in these gardens  surveying the eternal city, and the little man  who was shaving in London five days ago looks  already like a heap of old clothes.
London has  also crumbled.
London consists of fallen  factories and a few gasometers.
At the same  time I am not involved in this pageantry.
I see  the violet-sashed priests and the picturesque  nursemaids; I notice externals only.
I sit here  like a convalescent, like a very simple man who  knows only words of one syllable.
“The sun is  hot,” I say.
“The wind is cold.” I feel myself  carried round like an insect on top of the earth  and could swear that, sitting here, I feel its  hardness, its turning movement.
I have no  desire to go the opposite way from the earth.
Could I prolong this sense another six inches I  have a foreboding that I should touch some  queer territory.
But I have a very limited  proboscis.
I never wish to prolong these states  of detachment; I dislike them; I also despise  them.
I do not wish to be a man who sits for  fifty years on the same spot thinking of his  navel.
I wish to be harnessed to a cart, a  vegetable-cart that rattles over the cobbles.
‘The truth is that I am not one of those  who find their satisfaction in one person, or in  infinity.
The private room bores me, also the  sky.
My being only glitters when all its facets  are exposed to many people.
Let them fail and I  am full of holes, dwindling like burnt paper.
Oh, Mrs Moffat, Mrs Moffat, I say, come and  sweep it all up.
Things have dropped from me.
I  have outlived certain desires; I have lost  friends, some by death — Percival — others  through sheer inability to cross the street.
I am  not so gifted as at one time seemed likely.
Certain things lie beyond my scope.
I shall  never understand the harder problems of  philosophy.
Rome is the limit of my travelling.
As I drop asleep at night it strikes me  sometimes with a pang that I shall never see  savages in Tahiti spearing fish by the light of a  blazing cresset, or a lion spring in the jungle, or  a naked man eating raw flesh.
Nor shall I learn  Russian or read the Vedas.
I shall never again  walk bang into the pillar-box.
(But still a few  stars fall through my night, beautifully, from  the violence of that concussion.)
But as I think,  truth has come nearer.
For many years I  crooned complacently, “My children .
.
.
my  wife .
.
.
my house .
.
.
my dog.” As I let myself  in with the latch-key I would go through that  familiar ritual and wrap myself in those warm  coverings.
Now that lovely veil has fallen.
I do  not want possessions now.
(Note: an Italian  washer- woman stands on the same rung of  physical refinement as the daughter of an  English duke.)
‘But let me consider.
The drop falls;  another stage has been reached.
Stage upon  stage.
And why should there be an end of  stages?
and where do they lead?
To what  conclusion?
For they come wearing robes of  solemnity.
In these dilemmas the devout  consult those violet-sashed and sensual-  looking gentry who are trooping past me.
But  for ourselves, we resent teachers.
Let a man get  up and say, “Behold, this is the truth,” and  instantly I perceive a sandy cat filching a piece  of fish in the background.
Look, you have  forgotten the cat, I say.
So Neville, at school, in  the dim chapel, raged at the sight of the  doctor’s crucifix.
I, who am always distracted,  whether by a cat or by a bee buzzing round the  bouquet that Lady Hampden keeps so diligently  pressed to her nose, at once make up a story  and so obliterate the angles of the crucifix.
I  have made up thousands of stories; I have filled  innumerable notebooks with phrases to be  used when I have found the true story, the one  story to which all these phrases refer.
But I  have never yet found that story.
And I begin to  ask, Are there stories?
‘Look now from this terrace at the  swarming population beneath.
Look at the  general activity and clamour.
That man is in  difficulties with his mule.
Half a dozen good-  natured loafers offer their services.
Others pass  by without looking.
They have as many  interests as there are threads in a skein.
Look at  the sweep of the sky, bowled over by round  white clouds.
Imagine the leagues of level land  and the aqueducts and the broken Roman  pavement  and  the  tombstones  in  the  Campagna, and beyond the Campagna, the sea,  then again more land, then the sea.
I could  break off any detail in all that prospect — say  the mule-cart — and describe it with the  greatest ease.
But why describe a man in  trouble with his mule?
Again, I could invent  stories about that girl coming up the steps.
“She  met him under the dark archway.
.
.
.
‘It is over,’  he said, turning from the cage where the china  parrot hangs.” Or simply, “That was all.” But  why impose my arbitrary design?
Why stress  this and shape that and twist up little figures  like the toys men sell in trays in the street?
Why select this, out of all that — one detail?
‘Here am I shedding one of my life-skins,  and all they will say is, “Bernard is spending ten  days in Rome.” Here am I marching up and  down this terrace alone, unoriented.
But  observe how dots and dashes are beginning, as  I walk, to run themselves into continuous lines,  how things are losing the bald, the separate  identity that they had as I walked up those  steps.
The great red pot is now a reddish streak  in a wave of yellowish green.
The world is  beginning to move past me like the banks of a  hedge when the train starts, like the waves of  the sea when a steamer moves.
I am moving  too, am becoming involved in the general  sequence when one thing follows another and  it seems inevitable that the tree should come,  then the telegraph-pole, then the break in the  hedge.
And as I move, surrounded, included  and taking part, the usual phrases begin to  bubble up, and I wish to free these bubbles  from the trap- door in my head, and direct my  steps therefore towards that man, the back of  whose head is half familiar to me.
We were  together at school.
We shall undoubtedly meet.
We shall certainly lunch together.
We shall  talk.
