But wait, one moment wait.
‘These moments of escape are not to be  despised.
They come too seldom.
Tahiti  becomes possible.
Leaning over this parapet I  see far out a waste of water.
A fin turns.
This  bare visual impression is unattached to any line  of reason, it springs up as one might see the fin  of a porpoise on the horizon.
Visual  impressions often communicate thus briefly  statements that we shall in time to come  uncover and coax into words.
I note under F.,  therefore, “Fin in a waste of waters.” I, who am  perpetually making notes in the margin of my  mind for some final statement, make this mark,  waiting for some winter’s evening.
‘Now I shall go and lunch somewhere, I  shall hold my glass up, I shall look through the  wine, I shall observe with more than my usual  detachment, and when a pretty woman enters  the restaurant and comes down the room  between the tables I shall say to myself, “Look  where she comes against a waste of waters.” A  meaningless observation, but to me, solemn,  slate-coloured, with a fatal sound of ruining  worlds and waters falling to destruction.
‘So, Bernard (I recall you, you the usual  partner in my enterprises), let us begin this  new chapter, and observe the formation of this  new,  this  unknown,  strange,  altogether  unidentified and terrifying experience — the  new drop — which is about to shape itself.
Larpent is that man’s name.’  ‘In this hot afternoon,’ said Susan, ‘here in  this garden, here in this field where I walk with  my son, I have reached the summit of my  desires.
The hinge of the gate is rusty; he  heaves it open.
The violent passions of  childhood, my tears in the garden when Jinny  kissed Louis, my rage in the schoolroom, which  smelt of pine, my loneliness in foreign places,  when the mules came clattering in on their  pointed hoofs and the Italian women chattered  at the fountain, shawled, with carnations  twisted in their hair, are rewarded by security,  possession, familiarity.
I have had peaceful,  productive years.
I possess all I see.
I have  grown trees from the seed.
I have made ponds  in which goldfish hide under the broad-leaved  lilies.
I have netted over strawberry beds and  lettuce beds, and stitched the pears and the  plums into white bags to keep them safe from  the wasps.
I have seen my sons and daughters,  once netted over like fruit in their cots, break  the meshes and walk with me, taller than I am,  casting shadows on the grass.
‘I am fenced in, planted here like one of my  own trees.
I say, “My son,” I say, “My  daughter,” and even the ironmonger looking up  from his counter strewn with nails, paint and  wire-fencing respects the shabby car at the door  with its butterfly nets, pads and bee-hives.
We  hang mistletoe over the clock at Christmas,  weigh our blackberries and mushrooms, count  out jam-pots, and stand year by year to be  measured against the shutter in the drawing-  room window.
I also make wreaths of white  flowers, twisting silver-leaved plants among  them for the dead, attaching my card with  sorrow for the dead shepherd, with sympathy  for the wife of the dead carter; and sit by the  beds of dying women, who murmur their last  terrors, who clutch my hand; frequenting  rooms intolerable except to one born as I was  and early acquainted with the farmyard and the  dung-heap and the hens straying in and out,  and the mother with two rooms and growing  children.
I have seen the windows run with  heat, I have smelt the sink.
‘I ask now, standing with my scissors  among my flowers, Where can the shadow  enter?
What shock can loosen my laboriously  gathered, relentlessly pressed down life?
Yet  sometimes I am sick of natural happiness, and  fruit growing, and children scattering the house  with oars, guns, skulls, books won for prizes  and other trophies.
I am sick of the body, I am  sick of my own craft, industry and cunning, of  the unscrupulous ways of the mother who  protects, who collects under her jealous eyes at  one long table her own children, always her  own.
‘It is when spring comes, cold showery,  with sudden yellow flowers — then as I look at  the meat under the blue shade and press the  heavy silver bags of tea, of sultanas, I  remember how the sun rose, and the swallows  skimmed the grass, and phrases that Bernard  made when we were children, and the leaves  shook over us, many-folded, very light,  breaking the blue of the sky, scattering  wandering lights upon the skeleton roots of the  beech trees where I sat, sobbing.
The pigeon  rose.
I jumped up and ran after the words that  trailed like the dangling string from an air ball,  up and up, from branch to branch escaping.
Then like a cracked bowl the fixity of my  morning broke, and putting down the bags of  flour I thought, Life stands round me like a  glass round the imprisoned reed.
‘I hold some scissors and snip off the  hollyhocks, who went to Elvedon and trod on  rotten oak-apples, and saw the lady writing and  the gardeners with their great brooms.
We ran  back panting lest we should be shot and nailed  like stoats to the wall.
Now I measure, I  preserve.
At night I sit in the arm-chair and  stretch my arm for my sewing; and hear my  husband snore; and look up when the light  from a passing car dazzles the windows and feel  the waves of my life tossed, broken, round me  who am rooted; and hear cries, and see other’s  lives eddying like straws round the piers of a  bridge while I push my needle in and out and  draw my thread through the calico.
‘I think sometimes of Percival who loved  me.
He rode and fell in India.
I think  sometimes of Rhoda.
Uneasy cries wake me at  dead of night.
But for the most part I walk  content with my sons.
I cut the dead petals  from hollyhocks.
Rather squat, grey before my  time, but with clear eyes, pear-shaped eyes, I  pace my fields.’  ‘Here I stand,’ said Jinny, ‘in the Tube  station where everything that is desirable  meets — Piccadilly South Side, Piccadilly North  Side, Regent Street and the Haymarket.
I stand  for a moment under the pavement in the heart  of London.
Innumerable wheels rush and feet  press just over my head.
The great avenues of  civilization meet here and strike this way and  that.
I am in the heart of life.
But look — there  is my body in that looking glass.
How solitary,  how shrunk, how aged!
I am no longer young.
I  am no longer part of the procession.
Millions  descend those stairs in a terrible descent.
Great  wheels  churn  inexorably  urging  them  downwards.
Millions have died.
Percival died.
I  still move.
I still live.
But who will come if I  signal?
‘Little animal that I am, sucking my flanks  in and out with fear, I stand here, palpitating,  trembling.
But I will not be afraid.
I will bring  the whip down on my flanks.
I am not a  whimpering little animal making for the  shadow.
It was only for a moment, catching  sight of myself before I had time to prepare  myself as I always prepare myself for the sight  of myself, that I quailed.
It is true; I am not  young — I shall soon raise my arm in vain and  my scarf will fall to my side without having  signalled.
I shall not hear the sudden sigh in  the night and feel through the dark someone  coming.
There will be no reflections in window-  panes in dark tunnels.
I shall look into faces,  and I shall see them seek some other face.
I  admit for one moment the soundless flight of  upright bodies down the moving stairs like the  pinioned and terrible descent of some army of  the dead downwards and the churning of the  great engines remorselessly forwarding us, all  of us, onwards, made me cower and run for  shelter.
‘But now I swear, making deliberately in  front of the glass those slight preparations that  equip me, I will not be afraid.
Think of the  superb omnibuses, red and yellow, stopping  and starting, punctually in order.
Think of the  powerful and beautiful cars that now slow to a  foot’s pace and now shoot forward; think of  men, think of women, equipped, prepared,  driving onward.
This is the triumphant  procession; this is the army of victory with  banners and brass eagles and heads crowned  with laurel-leaves won in battle.
They are better  than savages in loin-cloths, and women whose  hair is dank, whose long breasts sag, with  children tugging at their long breasts.
These  broad thoroughfares — Piccadilly South,  Piccadilly North, Regent Street and the  Haymarket — are sanded paths of victory  driven through the jungle.
I too, with my little  patent-leather shoes, my handkerchief that is  but a film of gauze, my reddened lips and my  finely pencilled eyebrows, march to victory with  the band.
‘Look how they show off clothes here even  under ground in a perpetual radiance.
They will  not let the earth even lie wormy and sodden.
There are gauzes and silks illumined in glass  cases and underclothes trimmed with a million  close stitches of fine embroidery.
Crimson,  green, violet, they are dyed all colours.
Think  how they organize, roll out, smooth, dip in  dyes, and drive tunnels blasting the rock.
Lifts  rise and fall; trains stop, trams start as  regularly as the waves of the sea.
This is what  has my adhesion.
I am a native of this world, I  follow its banners.
How could I run for shelter  when they are so magnificently adventurous,  daring, curious, too, and strong enough in the  midst of effort to pause and scrawl with a free  hand a joke upon the wall?
Therefore I will  powder my face and redden my lips.
I will make  the angle of my eyebrows sharper than usual.
I  will rise to the surface, standing erect with the  others in Piccadilly Circus.
I will sign with a  sharp gesture to a cab whose driver will signify  by  some  indescribable  alacrity  his  understanding of my signals.
For I still excite  eagerness.
I still feel the bowing of men in the  street like the silent stoop of the corn when the  light wind blows, ruffling it red.
‘I will drive to my own house.
I will fill the  vases with lavish, with luxurious, with  extravagant flowers nodding in great bunches.
I  will place one chair there, another here.
I will  put ready cigarettes, glasses and some gaily  covered new unread book in case Bernard  comes, or Neville or Louis.
But perhaps it will  not be Bernard, Neville or Louis, but somebody  new, somebody unknown, somebody I passed  on a staircase and, just turning as we passed, I  murmured, “Come.” He will come this  afternoon; somebody I do not know, somebody  new.
Let the silent army of the dead descend.
I  march forward.’  ‘I no longer need a room now,’ said Neville,  ‘or walls and firelight.
I am no longer young.
I  pass Jinny’s house without envy, and smile at  the young man who arranges his tie a little  nervously on the door-step.
Let the dapper  young man ring the bell; let him find her.
I  shall find her if I want her; if not, I pass on.
The  old corrosion has lost its bite — envy, intrigue  and bitterness have been washed out.
We have  lost our glory too.
When we were young we sat  anywhere, on bare benches in draughty halls  with the doors always banging.
We tumbled  about half naked like boys on the deck of a ship  squirting each other with hose-pipes.
Now I  could swear that I like people pouring profusely  out of the Tube when the day’s work is done,  unanimous, indiscriminate, uncounted.
I have  picked my own fruit.
I look dispassionately.
‘After all, we are not responsible.
We are  not judges.
We are not called upon to torture  our fellows with thumb-screws and irons; we  are not called upon to mount pulpits and  lecture them on pale Sunday afternoons.
It is  better to look at a rose, or to read Shakespeare  as I read him here in Shaftesbury Avenue.
Here’s the fool, here’s the villain, here in a car  comes Cleopatra, burning on her barge.
Here  are figures of the damned too, noseless men by  the police-court wall, standing with their feet in  fire, howling.
This is poetry if we do not write  it.
They act their parts infallibly, and almost  before they open their lips I know what they  are going to say, and wait the divine moment  when they speak the word that must have been  written.
If it were only for the sake of the play, I  could walk Shaftesbury Avenue for ever.
‘Then coming from the street, entering  some room, there are people talking, or hardly  troubling to talk.
He says, she says, somebody  else says things have been said so often that  one word is now enough to lift a whole weight.
Argument, laughter, old grievances — they fall  through the air, thickening it.
I take a book and  read half a page of anything.
They have not  mended the spout of the teapot yet.
The child  dances, dressed in her mother’s clothes.
‘But then Rhoda, or it may be Louis, some  fasting and anguished spirit, passes through  and out again.
They want a plot, do they?
They  want a reason?
It is not enough for them, this  ordinary scene.
It is not enough to wait for the  thing to be said as if it were written; to see the  sentence lay its dab of clay precisely on the  right place, making character; to perceive,  suddenly, some group in outline against the  sky.
Yet if they want violence, I have seen death  and murder and suicide all in one room.
One  comes in, one goes out.
There are sobs on the  staircase.
I have heard threads broken and  knots tied and the quiet stitching of white  cambric going on and on on the knees of a  woman.
Why ask, like Louis, for a reason, or fly  like Rhoda to some far grove and part the  leaves of the laurels and look for statues?
They  say that one must beat one’s wings against the  storm in the belief that beyond this welter the  sun shines; the sun falls sheer into pools that  are fledged with willows.
(Here it is November;  the poor hold out matchboxes in wind-bitten  fingers.)
They say truth is to be found there  entire, and virtue, that shuffles along here,  down blind alleys, is to be had there perfect.
Rhoda flies with her neck outstretched and  blind fanatic eyes, past us.
Louis, now so  opulent, goes to his attic window among the  blistered roofs and gazes where she has  vanished, but must sit down in his office  among the typewriters and the telephone and  work it all out for our instruction, for our  regeneration, and the reform of an unborn  world.
‘But now in this room, which I enter  without knocking, things are said as if they had  been written.
I go to the bookcase.
If I choose, I  read half a page of anything.
I need not speak.
But I listen.
I am marvellously on the alert.
Certainly, one cannot read this poem without  effort.
The page is often corrupt and mud-  stained, and torn and stuck together with faded  leaves, with scraps of verbena or geranium.
To  read this poem one must have myriad eyes, like  one of those lamps that turn on slabs of racing  water at midnight in the Atlantic, when perhaps  only a spray of seaweed pricks the surface, or  suddenly the waves gape and up shoulders a  monster.
One must put aside antipathies and  jealousies and not interrupt.
One must have  patience and infinite care and let the light  sound, whether of spiders’ delicate feet on a  leaf or the chuckle of water in some irrelevant  drain-pipe, unfold too.
Nothing is to be rejected  in fear or horror.
The poet who has written this  page (what I read with people talking) has  withdrawn.
There are no commas or semi-  colons.
The lines do not run in convenient  lengths.
Much is sheer nonsense.
One must be  sceptical, but throw caution to the winds and  when the door opens accept absolutely.
Also  sometimes weep; also cut away ruthlessly with  a slice of the blade soot, bark, hard accretions  of all sorts.
And so (while they talk) let down  one’s net deeper and deeper and gently draw in  and bring to the surface what he said and she  said and make poetry.
‘Now I have listened to them talking.
They  have gone now.
I am alone.
I could be content  to watch the fire burn for ever, like a dome, like  a furnace; now some spike of wood takes the  look of a scaffold, or pit, or happy valley; now it  is a serpent curled crimson with white scales.
The fruit on the curtain swells beneath the  parrot’s beak.
Cheep, cheep, creaks the fire, like  the cheep of insects in the middle of a forest.
Cheep, cheep, it clicks while out there the  branches thrash the air, and now, like a volley  of shot, a tree falls.
These are the sounds of a  London night.
Then I hear the one sound I wait  for.
Up and up it comes, approaches, hesitates,  stops at my door.
I cry, “Come in.
Sit by me.
Sit  on the edge of the chair.” Swept away by the old  hallucination, I cry, “Come closer, closer”.’  ‘I come back from the office,’ said Louis.
‘I  hang my coat here, place my stick there — I like  to fancy that Richelieu walked with such a  cane.
Thus I divest myself of my authority.
I  have been sitting at the right hand of a director  at a varnished table.
The maps of our successful  undertakings confront us on the wall.
We have  laced the world together with our ships.
The  globe is strung with our lines.
I am immensely  respectable.
All the young ladies in the office  acknowledge my entrance.
I can dine where I  like now, and without vanity may suppose that  I shall soon acquire a house in Surrey, two cars,  a conservatory and some rare species of melon.
But I still return, I still come back to my attic,  hang up my hat and resume in solitude that  curious attempt which I have made since I  brought down my fist on my master’s grained  oak door.
I open a little book.
I read one poem.
One poem is enough.
O western wind .
.
.
O western wind, you are at enmity with my  mahogany table and spats, and also, alas, with  the vulgarity of my mistress, the little actress,  who has never been able to speak English  correctly —  O western wind, when wilt thou blow .
.
.
Rhoda, with her intense abstraction, with her  unseeing eyes the colour of snail’s flesh, does  not destroy you, western wind, whether she  comes at midnight when the stars blaze or at  the most prosaic hour of midday.
She stands at  the window and looks at the chimney-pots and  the broken windows in the houses of poor  people —  O western wind, when wilt thou blow .
.
.
‘My task, my burden, has always been greater  than other people’s.
A pyramid has been set on  my shoulders.
I have tried to do a colossal  labour.
I have driven a violent, an unruly, a  vicious team.
With my Australian accent I have  sat in eating-shops and tried to make the clerks  accept me, yet never forgotten my solemn and  severe convictions and the discrepancies and  incoherences that must be resolved.
As a boy I  dreamt of the Nile, was reluctant to awake, yet  brought down my fist on the grained oak door.
It would have been happier to have been born  without a destiny, like Susan, like Percival,  whom I most admire.
O western wind, when wilt thou blow.
That the small rain down can rain?
‘Life has been a terrible affair for me.
I am like  some vast sucker, some glutinous, some  adhesive, some insatiable mouth.
I have tried  to draw from the living flesh the stone lodged  at the centre.
I have known little natural  happiness, thought I chose my mistress in  order that, with her cockney accent, she might  make me feel at my ease.
But she only tumbled  the floor with dirty under- linen, and the  charwoman and the shop-boys called after me a  dozen times a day, mocking my prim and  supercilious gait.
O western wind, when wilt thou blow,  That the small rain down can rain?
‘What has my destiny been, the sharp-pointed  pyramid that has pressed on my ribs all these  years?
That I remember the Nile and the  women carrying pitchers on their heads; that I  feel myself woven in and out of the long  summers and winters that have made the corn  flow and have frozen the streams.
I am not a  single and passing being.
My life is not a  moment’s bright spark like that on the surface  of a diamond.
I go beneath ground tortuously,  as if a warder carried a lamp from cell to cell.
My destiny has been that I remember and must  weave together, must plait into one cable the  many threads, the thin, the thick, the broken,  the enduring of our long history, of our  tumultuous and varied day.
There is always  more to be understood; a discord to be listened  for; a falsity to be reprimanded.
Broken and  soot-stained are these roofs with their chimney  cowls, their loose slates, their slinking cats and  attic windows.
I pick my way over broken glass,  among blistered tiles, and see only vile and  famished faces.
‘Let us suppose that I make reason of it all  — one poem on a page, and then die.
I can  assure you it will not be unwillingly.
Percival  died.
Rhoda left me.
But I shall live to be gaunt  and sere, to tap my way, much respected, with  my gold-headed cane along the pavements of  the city.
Perhaps I shall never die, shall never  attain even that continuity and permanence —  O western wind, when wilt thou blow,  That the small rain down can rain?
‘Percival was flowering with green leaves and  was laid in the earth with all his branches still  sighing in the summer wind.
Rhoda, with  whom I shared silence when the others spoke,  she who hung back and turned aside when the  herd assembled and galloped with orderly,  sleek backs over the rich pastures, has gone  now like the desert heat.
When the sun blisters  the roofs of the city I think of her; when the dry  leaves patter to the ground; when the old men  come with pointed sticks and pierce little bits of  paper as we pierced her —  O western wind, when wilt thou blow,  That the small rain down can rain?
Christ, that my love were in my arms,  And I in my bed again!
I return now to my book; I return now to my  attempt.’  ‘Oh, life, how I have dreaded you,’ said  Rhoda, ‘oh, human beings, how I have hated  you!
How you have nudged, how you have  interrupted, how hideous you have looked in  Oxford Street, how squalid sitting opposite each  other staring in the Tube!
Now as I climb this  mountain, from the top of which I shall see  Africa, my mind is printed with brown-paper  parcels and your faces.
I have been stained by  you and corrupted.
You smelt so unpleasant  too, lining up outside doors to buy tickets.
All  were dressed in indeterminate shades of grey  and brown, never even a blue feather pinned to  a hat.
None had the courage to be one thing  rather than another.
What dissolution of the  soul you demanded in order to get through one  day, what lies, bowings, scrapings, fluency and  servility!
How you chained me to one spot, one  hour, one chair, and sat yourselves down  opposite!
How you snatched from me the white  spaces that lie between hour and hour and  rolled them into dirty pellets and tossed them  into the waste-paper basket with your greasy  paws.
Yet those were my life.
‘But I yielded.
Sneers and yawns were  covered with my hand.
I did not go out into the  street and break a bottle in the gutter as a sign  of rage.
Trembling with ardour, I pretended  that I was not surprised.
What you did, I did.
If  Susan and Jinny pulled up their stockings like  that, I pulled mine up like that also.
So terrible  was life that I held up shade after shade.
Look  at life through this, look at life through that; let  there be rose leaves, let there be vine leaves — I  covered the whole street, Oxford Street,  Piccadilly Circus, with the blaze and ripple of  my mind, with vine leaves and rose leaves.
There were boxes too, standing in the passage  when the school broke up.
I stole secretly to  read the labels and dream of names and faces.
Harrogate, perhaps, Edinburgh, perhaps, was  ruffled with golden glory where some girl  whose name I forget stood on the pavement.
But it was the name only.
I left Louis; I feared  embraces.
With fleeces, with vestments, I have  tried to cover the blue-black blade.
I implored  day to break into night.
I have longed to see the  cupboard dwindle, to feel the bed soften, to  float suspended, to perceive lengthened trees,  lengthened faces, a green bank on a moor and  two figures in distress saying good-bye.
I flung  words in fans like those the sower throws over  the ploughed fields when the earth is bare.
I  desired always to stretch the night and fill it  fuller and fuller with dreams.
‘Then in some Hall I parted the boughs of  music and saw the house we have made; the  square stood upon the oblong.
“The house  which contains all,” I said, lurching against  people’s shoulders in an omnibus after Percival  died; yet I went to Greenwich.
Walking on the  embankment, I prayed that I might thunder for  ever on the verge of the world where there is no  vegetation, but here and there a marble pillar.
I  threw my bunch into the spreading wave.
I said,  “Consume me, carry me to the furthest limit.”  The wave has broken; the bunch is withered.
I  seldom think of Percival now.
‘Now I climb this Spanish hill; and I will  suppose that this mule- back is my bed and that  I lie dying.
There is only a thin sheet between  me now and the infinite depths.
The lumps in  the mattress soften beneath me.
We stumble  up — we stumble on.
My path has been up and  up, towards some solitary tree with a pool  beside it on the very top.
I have sliced the  waters of beauty in the evening when the hills  close themselves like birds’ wings folded.
I have  picked sometimes a red carnation, and wisps of  hay.
I have sunk alone on the turf and fingered  some old bone and thought: When the wind  stoops to brush this height, may there be  nothing found but a pinch of dust.
‘The mule stumbles up and on.
The ridge  of the hill rises like mist, but from the top I  shall see Africa.
Now the bed gives under me.
The sheets spotted with yellow holes let me fall  through.
The good woman with a face like a  white horse at the end of the bed makes a  valedictory movement and turns to go.
Who  then comes with me?
Flowers only, the  cowbind and the moonlight-coloured May.
Gathering them loosely in a sheaf I made of  them a garland and gave them — Oh, to whom?
We launch out now over the precipice.
Beneath  us lie the lights of the herring fleet.
The cliffs  vanish.
Rippling  small,  rippling  grey,  innumerable waves spread beneath us.
I touch  nothing.
I see nothing.
We may sink and settle  on the waves.
The sea will drum in my ears.
The white petals will be darkened with sea  water.
They will float for a moment and then  sink.
Rolling me over the waves will shoulder  me under.
Everything falls in a tremendous  shower, dissolving me.
‘Yet that tree has bristling branches; that is  the hard line of a cottage roof.
Those bladder  shapes painted red and yellow are faces.
Putting  my foot to the ground I step gingerly and press  my hand against the hard door of a Spanish  inn.’  The sun was sinking.
The hard stone of the day  was cracked and light poured through its  splinters.
Red and gold shot through the waves,  in rapid running arrows, feathered with  darkness.
Erratically rays of light flashed and  wandered, like signals from sunken islands, or  darts shot through laurel groves by shameless,  laughing boys.
But the waves, as they neared  the shore, were robbed of light, and fell in one  long concussion, like a wall falling, a wall of  grey stone, unpierced by any chink of light.
A breeze rose; a shiver ran through the  leaves; and thus stirred they lost their brown  density and became grey or white as the tree  shifted its mass, winked and lost its domed  uniformity.
The hawk poised on the topmost  branch flicked its eyelids and rose and sailed  and soared far away.
The wild plover cried in  the marshes, evading, circling, and crying  further off in loneliness.
The smoke of trains  and chimneys was stretched and torn and  became part of the fleecy canopy that hung over  the sea and the fields.
Now the corn was cut.
Now only a brisk  stubble was left of all its flowing and waving.
Slowly a great owl launched itself from the elm  tree and swung and rose, as if on a line that  dipped, to the height of the cedar.
On the hills  the slow shadows now broadened, now shrank,  as they passed over.
The pool on the top of the  moor looked blank.
No furry face looked there,  or hoof splashed, or hot muzzle seethed in the  water.
A bird, perched on an ash-coloured twig,  sipped a beak full of cold water.
There was no  sound of cropping, and no sound of wheels, but  only the sudden roar of the wind letting its sails  fill and brushing the tops of the grasses.
One  bone lay rain-pocked and sun-bleached till it  shone like a twig that the sea has polished.
The  tree, that had burnt foxy red in spring and in  midsummer bent pliant leaves to the south  wind, was now black as iron, and as bare.
The land was so distant that no shining  roof or glittering window could be any longer  seen.
The tremendous weight of the shadowed  earth had engulfed such frail fetters, such snail-  shell encumbrances.
Now there was only the  liquid shadow of the cloud, the buffeting of the  rain, a single darting spear of sunshine, or the  sudden bruise of the rainstorm.
Solitary trees  marked distant hills like obelisks.
The evening sun, whose heat had gone out  of it and whose burning spot of intensity had  been diffused, made chairs and tables mellower  and inlaid them with lozenges of brown and  yellow.
Lined with shadows their weight  seemed more ponderous, as if colour, tilted,  had run to one side.
Here lay knife, fork and  glass, but lengthened, swollen, and made  portentous.
Rimmed in a gold circle the  looking-glass held the scene immobile as if  everlasting in its eye.
Meanwhile the shadows lengthened on the  beach; the blackness deepened.
The iron black  boot became a pool of deep blue.
The rocks lost  their hardness.
The water that stood round the  old boat was dark as if mussels had been  steeped in it.
The foam had turned livid and left  here and there a white gleam of pearl on the  misty sand.
‘Hampton Court,’ said Bernard.
‘Hampton  Court.
This is our meeting-place.
Behold the  red chimneys, the square battlements of  Hampton Court.
The tone of my voice as I say  “Hampton Court” proves that I am middle-  aged.
Ten years, fifteen years ago, I should have  said “Hampton Court?” with interrogation —  what will it be like?
Will there be lakes, mazes?
Or with anticipation, What is going to happen  to me here?
Whom shall I meet?
Now,  Hampton Court — Hampton Court — the words  beat a gong in the space which I have so  laboriously cleared with half a dozen telephone  messages and post cards, give off ring after ring  of sound, booming, sonorous: and pictures rise  — summer afternoons, boats, old ladies holding  their skirts up, one urn in winter, some  daffodils in March — these all float to the top of  the waters that now lie deep on every scene.
There at the door by the Inn, our meeting-  place, they are already standing — Susan, Louis,  Rhoda, Jinny and Neville.
They have come  together already.
In a moment, when I have  joined them, another arrangement will form,  another pattern.
What now runs to waste,  forming scenes profusely, will be checked,  stated.
I am reluctant to suffer that  compulsion.
Already at fifty yards distance I  feel the order of my being changed.
The tug of  the magnet of their society tells upon me.
I  come nearer.
They do not see me.
Now Rhoda  sees me, but she pretends, with her horror of  the shock of meeting, that I am a stranger.
Now  Neville turns.
Suddenly, raising my hand,  saluting Neville I cry, “I too have pressed  flowers between the pages of Shakespeare’s  sonnets,” and am churned up.
My little boat  bobs unsteadily upon the chopped and tossing  waves.
There is no panacea (let me note)  against the shock of meeting.
‘It is uncomfortable too, joining ragged  edges, raw edges; only gradually, as we shuffle  and trample into the Inn, taking coats and hats  off, does meeting become agreeable.
Now we  assemble in the long, bare dining-room that  overlooks some park, some green space still  fantastically lit by the setting sun so that there  is a gold bar between the trees, and sit  ourselves down.’  ‘Now sitting side by side,’ said Neville, ‘at  this narrow table, now before the first emotion  is worn smooth, what do we feel?
Honestly  now, openly and directly as befits old friends  meeting with difficulty, what do we feel on  meeting?
Sorrow.
The door will not open; he  will not come.
And we are laden.
Being now all  of us middle-aged, loads are on us.
Let us put  down our loads.
What have you made of life, we  ask, and I?
You, Bernard; you, Susan; you,  Jinny; and Rhoda and Louis?
The lists have  been posted on the doors.
Before we break  these rolls, and help ourselves to fish and salad,  I feel in my private pocket and find my  credentials — what I carry to prove my  superiority.
I have passed.
I have papers in my  private pocket that prove it.
But your eyes,  Susan, full of turnips and cornfields, disturb  me.
These papers in my private pocket — the  clamour that proves that I have passed — make  a faint sound like that of a man clapping in an  empty field to scare away rooks.
Now it has  died down altogether, under Susan’s stare (the  clapping, the reverberation that I have made),  and I hear only the wind sweeping over the  ploughed land and some bird singing — perhaps  some intoxicated lark.
Has the waiter heard of  me, or those furtive everlasting couples, now  loitering, now holding back and looking at the  trees which are not yet dark enough to shelter  their prostrate bodies?
No; the sound of  clapping has failed.
‘What then remains, when I cannot pull  out my papers and make you believe by reading  aloud my credentials that I have passed?
What  remains is what Susan brings to light under the  acid of her green eyes, her crystal, pear-shaped  eyes.
There is always somebody, when we come  together, and the edges of meeting are still  sharp, who refuses to be submerged; whose  identity therefore one wishes to make crouch  beneath one’s own.
For me now, it is Susan.
I  talk to impress Susan.
Listen to me, Susan.
‘When someone comes in at breakfast,  even the embroidered fruit on my curtain  swells so that parrots can peck it; one can break  it off between one’s thumb and finger.
The thin,  skimmed milk of early morning turns opal,  blue, rose.
At that hour your husband — the  man who slapped his gaiters, pointing with his  whip at the barren cow — grumbles.
You say  nothing.
You see nothing.
Custom blinds your  eyes.
At that hour your relationship is mute,  null, dun-coloured.
Mine at that hour is warm  and various.
There are no repetitions for me.
Each day is dangerous.
Smooth on the surface,  we are all bone beneath like snakes coiling.
Suppose we read The Times; suppose we argue.
It is an experience.
Suppose it is winter.
The  snow falling loads down the roof and seals us  together in a red cave.
The pipes have burst.
We  stand a yellow tin bath in the middle of the  room.
We rush helter-skelter for basins.
Look  there — it has burst again over the bookcase.
We shout with laughter at the sight of ruin.
Let  solidity be destroyed.
Let us have no  possessions.
Or is it summer?
We may wander  to a lake and watch Chinese geese waddling  flat-footed to the water’s edge or see a bone-  like city church with young green trembling  before it.
(I choose at random; I choose the  obvious.)
Each sight is an arabesque scrawled  suddenly to illustrate some hazard and marvel  of intimacy.
