And while it passes, Louis,  we are aware of downfalling, we forebode  decay.
The shadow slants.
We who are  conspirators, withdrawn together to lean over  some cold urn, note how the purple flame flows  downwards.’  ‘Death is woven in with the violets,’ said  Louis.
‘Death and again death.’)  ‘How proudly we sit here,’ said Jinny, ‘we  who are not yet twenty- five!
Outside the trees  flower; outside the women linger; outside the  cabs swerve and sweep.
Emerged from the  tentative ways, the obscurities and dazzle of  youth, we look straight in front of us, ready for  what may come (the door opens, the door keeps  on opening).
All is real; all is firm without  shadow or illusion.
Beauty rides our brows.
There is mine, there is Susan’s.
Our flesh is  firm and cool.
Our differences are clear-cut as  the shadows of rocks in full sunlight.
Beside us  lie crisp rolls, yellow-glazed and hard; the table-  cloth is white; and our hands lie half curled,  ready to contract.
Days and days are to come;  winter days, summer days; we have scarcely  broken into our hoard.
Now the fruit is swollen  beneath the leaf.
The room is golden, and I say  to him, “Come”.’  ‘He has red ears,’ said Louis, ‘and the smell  of meat hangs down in a damp net while the  city clerks take snacks at the lunch bar.’  ‘With infinite time before us,’ said Neville,  ‘we ask what shall we do?
Shall we loiter down  Bond Street, looking here and there, and buying  perhaps a fountain-pen because it is green, or  asking how much is the ring with the blue  stone?
Or shall we sit indoors and watch the  coals turn crimson?
Shall we stretch our hands  for books and read here a passage and there a  passage?
Shall we shout with laughter for no  reason?
Shall we push through flowering  meadows and make daisy chains?
Shall we find  out when the next train starts for the Hebrides  and engage a reserved compartment?
All is to  come.’  ‘For you,’ said Bernard, ‘but yesterday I  walked bang into a pillar-box.
Yesterday I  became engaged.’  ‘How strange,’ said Susan, ‘the little heaps  of sugar look by the side of our plates.
Also the  mottled peelings of pears, and the plush rims to  the looking-glasses.
I had not seen them before.
Everything is now set; everything is fixed.
Bernard is engaged.
Something irrevocable has  happened.
A circle has been cast on the waters;  a chain is imposed.
We shall never flow freely  again.’  ‘For one moment only,’ said Louis.
‘Before  the chain breaks, before disorder returns, see  us fixed, see us displayed, see us held in a vice.
‘But now the circle breaks.
Now the current  flows.
Now we rush faster than before.
Now  passions that lay in wait down there in the dark  weeds which grow at the bottom rise and pound  us with their waves.
Pain and jealousy, envy  and desire, and something deeper than they  are, stronger than love and more subterranean.
The voice of action speaks.
Listen, Rhoda (for  we are conspirators, with our hands on the cold  urn), to the casual, quick, exciting voice of  action, of hounds running on the scent.
They  speak now without troubling to finish their  sentences.
They talk a little language such as  lovers use.
An imperious brute possesses them.
The nerves thrill in their thighs.
Their hearts  pound and churn in their sides.
Susan screws  her pocket-handkerchief.
Jinny’s eyes dance  with fire.’  ‘They are immune,’ said Rhoda, ‘from  picking fingers and searching eyes.
How easily  they turn and glance; what poses they take of  energy and pride!
What life shines in Jinny’s  eyes; how fell, how entire Susan’s glance is,  searching for insects at the roots!
Their hair  shines lustrous.
Their eyes burn like the eyes of  animals brushing through leaves on the scent  of the prey.
The circle is destroyed.
We are  thrown asunder.’  ‘But soon, too soon,’ said Bernard, ‘this  egotistic exultation fails.
Too soon the moment  of ravenous identity is over, and the appetite  for happiness, and happiness, and still more  happiness is glutted.
The stone is sunk; the  moment is over.
Round me there spreads a  wide margin of indifference.
Now open in my  eyes a thousand eyes of curiosity.
Anyone now  is at liberty to murder Bernard, who is engaged  to be married, so long as they leave untouched  this margin of unknown territory, this forest of  the unknown world.
Why, I ask (whispering  discreetly), do women dine alone together  there?
Who are they?
And what has brought  them on this particular evening to this  particular spot?
The youth in the corner,  judging from the nervous way in which he puts  his hand from time to time to the back of his  head, is from the country.
He is suppliant, and  so anxious to respond suitably to the kindness  of his father’s friend, his host, that he can  scarcely enjoy now what he will enjoy very  much at about half-past eleven tomorrow  morning.
I have also seen that lady powder her  nose three times in the midst of an absorbing  conversation — about love, perhaps, about the  unhappiness of their dearest friend perhaps.
“Ah, but the state of my nose!” she thinks, and  out comes her powder-puff, obliterating in its  passage all the most fervent feelings of the  human heart.
There remains, however, the  insoluble problem of the solitary man with the  eyeglass;  of  the  elderly  lady  drinking  champagne alone.
Who and what are these  unknown people?
I ask.
I could make a dozen  stories of what he said, of what she said — I can  see a dozen pictures.
But what are stories?
Toys  I twist, bubbles I blow, one ring passing  through another.
And sometimes I begin to  doubt if there are stories.
What is my story?
What is Rhoda’s?
What is Neville’s?
There are  facts, as, for example: “The handsome young  man in the grey suit, whose reserve contrasted  so strangely with the loquacity of the others,  now brushed the crumbs from his waistcoat  and, with a characteristic gesture at once  commanding and benign, made a sign to the  waiter, who came instantly and returned a  moment later with the bill discreetly folded  upon a plate.” That is the truth; that is a fact,  but beyond it all is darkness and conjecture.’  ‘Now once more,’ said Louis, ‘as we are  about to part, having paid our bill, the circle in  our blood, broken so often, so sharply, for we  are so different, closes in a ring.
Something is  made.
Yes, as we rise and fidget, a little  nervously, we pray, holding in our hands this  common feeling, “Do not move, do not let the  swing door cut to pieces the thing that we have  made, that globes itself here, among these  lights, these peelings, this litter of bread  crumbs and people passing.
Do not move, do  not go.
Hold it for ever.”’  ‘Let us hold it for one moment,’ said Jinny;  ‘love, hatred, by whatever name we call it, this  globe whose walls are made of Percival, of  youth and beauty, and something so deep sunk  within us that we shall perhaps never make this  moment out of one man again.’  ‘Forests and far countries on the other side  of the world,’ said Rhoda, ‘are in it; seas and  jungles; the howlings of jackals and moonlight  falling upon some high peak where the eagle  soars.’  ‘Happiness is in it,’ said Neville, ‘and the  quiet of ordinary things.
A table, a chair, a book  with a paper-knife stuck between the pages.
And the petal falling from the rose, and the  light flickering as we sit silent, or, perhaps,  bethinking us of some trifle, suddenly speak.’  ‘Week-days are in it,’ said Susan, ‘Monday,  Tuesday, Wednesday; the horses going up to  the fields, and the horses returning; the rooks  rising and falling, and catching the elm-trees in  their net, whether it is April, whether it is  November.’  ‘What is to come is in it,’ said Bernard.
‘That is the last drop and the brightest that we  let fall like some supernal quicksilver into the  swelling and splendid moment created by us  from Percival.
What is to come?
I ask, brushing  the crumbs from my waistcoat, what is outside?
We have proved, sitting eating, sitting talking,  that we can add to the treasury of moments.
We are not slaves bound to suffer incessantly  unrecorded petty blows on our bent backs.
We  are not sheep either, following a master.
We are  creators.
We too have made something that will  join the innumerable congregations of past  time.
We too, as we put on our hats and push  open the door, stride not into chaos, but into a  world that our own force can subjugate and  make part of the illumined and everlasting  road.
‘Look, Percival, while they fetch the taxi, at  the prospect which you are so soon to lose.
The  street is hard and burnished with the churning  of innumerable wheels.
The yellow canopy of  our tremendous energy hangs like a burning  cloth above our heads.
Theatres, music halls  and lamps in private houses make that light.’  ‘Peaked clouds,’ said Rhoda, ‘voyage over a  sky dark like polished whalebone.’  ‘Now the agony begins; now the horror has  seized me with its fangs,’ said Neville.
‘Now the  cab comes; now Percival goes.
What can we do  to keep him?
How bridge the distance between  us?
How fan the fire so that it blazes for ever?
How signal to all time to come that we, who  stand in the street, in the lamplight, loved  Percival?
Now Percival is gone.’  The sun had risen to its full height.
It was no  longer half seen and guessed at, from hints and  gleams, as if a girl couched on her green-sea  mattress tired her brows with water-globed  jewels that sent lances of opal-tinted light  falling and flashing in the uncertain air like the  flanks of a dolphin leaping, or the flash of a  falling  blade.
Now  the  sun  burnt  uncompromising, undeniable.
It struck upon  the hard sand, and the rocks became furnaces  of red heat; it searched each pool and caught  the minnow hiding in the cranny, and showed  the rusty cartwheel, the white bone, or the boot  without laces stuck, black as iron, in the sand.
It gave to everything its exact measure of  colour; to the sandhills their innumerable  glitter, to the wild grasses their glancing green;  or it fell upon the arid waste of the desert, here  wind-scourged into furrows, here swept into  desolate cairns, here sprinkled with stunted  dark-green jungle trees.
It lit up the smooth gilt  mosque, the frail pink-and-white card houses  of the southern village, and the long-breasted,  white-haired women who knelt in the river bed  beating wrinkled cloths upon stones.
Steamers  thudding slowly over the sea were caught in the  level stare of the sun, and it beat through the  yellow awnings upon passengers who dozed or  paced the deck, shading their eyes to look for  the land, while day after day, compressed in its  oily throbbing sides, the ship bore them on  monotonously over the waters.
The sun beat on the crowded pinnacles of  southern hills and glared into deep, stony river  beds where the water was shrunk beneath the  high slung bridge so that washerwomen  kneeling on hot stones could scarcely wet their  linen; and lean mules went picking their way  among the chattering grey stones with panniers  slung across their narrow shoulders.
At midday  the heat of the sun made the hills grey as if  shaved and singed in an explosion, while,  further north, in cloudier and rainier countries  hills smoothed into slabs as with the back of a  spade had a light in them as if a warder, deep  within, went from chamber to chamber  carrying a green lamp.
Through atoms of grey-  blue air the sun struck at English fields and lit  up marshes and pools, a white gull on a stake,  the slow sail of shadows over blunt-headed  woods and young corn and flowing hayfields.
It  beat on the orchard wall, and every pit and  grain of the brick was silver pointed, purple,  fiery as if soft to touch, as if touched it must  melt into hot-baked grains of dust.
The  currants hung against the wall in ripples and  cascades of polished red; plums swelled out  their leaves, and all the blades of the grass were  run together in one fluent green blaze.
The  trees’ shadow was sunk to a dark pool at the  root.
Light descending in floods dissolved the  separate foliation into one green mound.
The birds sang passionate songs addressed  to one ear only and then stopped.
Bubbling and  chuckling they carried little bits of straw and  twig to the dark knots in the higher branches of  the trees.
Gilt and purpled they perched in the  garden where cones of laburnum and purple  shook down gold and lilac, for now at midday  the garden was all blossom and profusion and  even the tunnels under the plants were green  and purple and tawny as the sun beat through  the red petal, or the broad yellow petal, or was  barred by some thickly furred green stalk.
The sun struck straight upon the house,  making the white walls glare between the dark  windows.
Their panes, woven thickly with  green branches, held circles of impenetrable  darkness.
Sharp-edged wedges of light lay upon  the window-sill and showed inside the room  plates with blue rings, cups with curved  handles, the bulge of a great bowl, the  crisscross pattern in the rug, and the  formidable corners and lines of cabinets and  bookcases.
Behind their conglomeration hung a  zone of shadow in which might be a further  shape to be disencumbered of shadow or still  denser depths of darkness.
The waves broke and spread their waters  swiftly over the shore.
One after another they  massed themselves and fell; the spray tossed  itself back with the energy of their fall.
The  waves were steeped deep-blue save for a  pattern of diamond-pointed light on their backs  which rippled as the backs of great horses  ripple with muscles as they move.
The waves  fell; withdrew and fell again, like the thud of a  great beast stamping.
‘He is dead,’ said Neville.
‘He fell.
His horse  tripped.
He was thrown.
The sails of the world  have swung round and caught me on the head.
All is over.
The lights of the world have gone  out.
There stands the tree which I cannot pass.
‘Oh, to crumple this telegram in my fingers  — to let the light of the world flood back — to  say this has not happened!
But why turn one’s  head hither and thither?
This is the truth.
This  is the fact.
His horse stumbled; he was thrown.
The flashing trees and white rails went up in a  shower.
There was a surge; a drumming in his  ears.
Then the blow; the world crashed; he  breathed heavily.
He died where he fell.
‘Barns and summer days in the country,  rooms where we sat — all now lie in the unreal  world which is gone.
My past is cut from me.
They came running.
They carried him to some  pavilion, men in riding-boots, men in sun  helmets; among unknown men he died.
Loneliness and silence often surrounded him.
He often left me.
And then, returning, “See  where he comes!” I said.
‘Women shuffle past the window as if  there were no gulf cut in the street, no tree with  stiff leaves which we cannot pass.
We deserve  then to be tripped by molehills.
We are  infinitely abject, shuffling past with our eyes  shut.
But why should I submit?
Why try to lift  my foot and mount the stair?
This is where I  stand; here, holding the telegram.
The past,  summer days and rooms where we sat, stream  away like burnt paper with red eyes in it.
Why  meet and resume?
Why talk and eat and make  up other combinations with other people?
From this moment I am solitary.
No one will  know me now.
I have three letters, “I am about  to play quoits with a colonel, so no more,” thus  he ends our friendship, shouldering his way  through the crowd with a wave of his hand.
This farce is worth no more formal celebration.
Yet if someone had but said: “Wait”; had pulled  the strap three holes tighter — he would have  done justice for fifty years, and sat in Court and  ridden alone at the head of troops and  denounced some monstrous tyranny, and come  back to us.
‘Now I say there is a grinning, there is a  subterfuge.
There is something sneering behind  our backs.
That boy almost lost his footing as  he leapt on the bus.
Percival fell; was killed; is  buried; and I watch people passing; holding  tight to the rails of omnibuses; determined to  save their lives.
‘I will not lift my foot to climb the stair.
I  will stand for one moment beneath the  immitigable tree, alone with the man whose  throat is cut, while downstairs the cook shoves  in and out the dampers.
I will not climb the  stair.
We are doomed, all of us.
Women shuffle  past with shopping-bags.
People keep on  passing.
Yet you shall not destroy me.
For this  moment, this one moment, we are together.
I  press you to me.
Come, pain, feed on me.
Bury  your fangs in my flesh.
Tear me asunder.
I sob,  I sob.’  ‘Such  is  the  incomprehensible  combination,’ said Bernard, ‘such is the  complexity of things, that as I descend the  staircase I do not know which is sorrow, which  joy.
My son is born; Percival is dead.
I am  upheld by pillars, shored up on either side by  stark emotions; but which is sorrow, which is  joy?
I ask, and do not know, only that I need  silence, and to be alone and to go out, and to  save one hour to consider what has happened  to my world, what death has done to my world.
‘This then is the world that Percival sees  no longer.
Let me look.
The butcher delivers  meat next door; two old men stumble along the  pavement; sparrows alight.
The machine then  works; I note the rhythm, the throb, but as a  thing in which I have no part, since he sees it  no longer.
(He lies pale and bandaged in some  room.)
Now then is my chance to find out what  is of great importance, and I must be careful,  and tell no lies.
About him my feeling was: he  sat there in the centre.
Now I go to that spot no  longer.
The place is empty.
‘Oh yes, I can assure you, men in felt hats  and women carrying baskets — you have lost  something that would have been very valuable  to you.
You have lost a leader whom you would  have followed; and one of you has lost  happiness and children.
He is dead who would  have given you that.
He lies on a camp-bed,  bandaged, in some hot Indian hospital while  coolies squatted on the floor agitate those fans  — I forget how they call them.
But this is  important; “You are well out of it,” I said, while  the doves descended over the roofs and my son  was born, as if it were a fact.
I remember, as a  boy, his curious air of detachment.
And I go on  to say (my eyes fill with tears and then are dry),  “But this is better than one had dared to hope.”  I say, addressing what is abstract, facing me  eyeless at the end of the avenue, in the sky, “Is  this the utmost you can do?” Then we have  triumphed.
You have done your utmost, I say,  addressing that blank and brutal face (for he  was twenty-five and should have lived to be  eighty) without avail.
I am not going to lie  down and weep away a life of care.
(An entry to  be made in my pocket-book; contempt for those  who inflict meaningless death.)
Further, this is  important; that I should be able to place him in  trifling and ridiculous situations, so that he  may not feel himself absurd, perched on a great  horse.
I must be able to say, “Percival, a  ridiculous name.” At the same time let me tell  you, men and women, hurrying to the tube  station, you would have had to respect him.
You would have had to form up and follow  behind him.
How strange to oar one’s way  through crowds seeing life through hollow  eyes, burning eyes.
‘Yet already signals begin, beckonings,  attempts to lure me back.
Curiosity is knocked  out for only a short time.
One cannot live  outside the machine for more perhaps than half  an hour.
Bodies, I note, already begin to look  ordinary; but what is behind them differs — the  perspective.
Behind that newspaper placard is  the hospital; the long room with black men  pulling ropes; and then they bury him.
Yet  since it says a famous actress has been  divorced, I ask instantly Which?
Yet I cannot  take out my penny; I cannot buy a paper; I  cannot suffer interruption yet.
‘I ask, if I shall never see you again and fix  my eyes on that solidity, what form will our  communication take?
You have gone across the  court, further and further, drawing finer and  finer the thread between us.
But you exist  somewhere.
Something of you remains.
A  judge.
That is, if I discover a new vein in myself  I shall submit it to you privately.
I shall ask,  What is your verdict?
You shall remain the  arbiter.
But for how long?
Things will become  too difficult to explain: there will be new  things; already my son.
I am now at the zenith  of an experience.
It will decline.
Already I no  longer cry with conviction, “What luck!”  Exaltation, the flight of doves descending, is  over.
Chaos, detail return.
I am no longer  amazed by names written over shop-windows.
I  do not feel Why hurry?
Why catch trains?
The  sequence returns; one thing leads to another —  the usual order.
‘Yes, but I still resent the usual order.
I will  not let myself be made yet to accept the  sequence of things.
I will walk; I will not  change the rhythm of my mind by stopping, by  looking; I will walk.
I will go up these steps into  the gallery and submit myself to the influence  of minds like mine outside the sequence.
There  is little time left to answer the question; my  powers flag; I become torpid.
Here are pictures.
Here are cold madonnas among their pillars.
Let them lay to rest the incessant activity of the  mind’s eye, the bandaged head, the men with  ropes, so that I may find something unvisual  beneath.
Here are gardens; and Venus among  her flowers; here are saints and blue  madonnas.
Mercifully these pictures make no  reference; they do not nudge; they do not point.
Thus they expand my consciousness of him and  bring him back to me differently.
I remember  his beauty.
“Look, where he comes,” I said.
‘Lines and colours almost persuade me  that I too can be heroic, I, who make phrases so  easily, am so soon seduced, love what comes  next, and cannot clench my fist, but vacillate  weakly making phrases according to my  circumstances.
Now, through my own infirmity  I recover what he was to me: my opposite.
Being naturally truthful, he did not see the  point of these exaggerations, and was borne on  by a natural sense of the fitting, was indeed a  great master of the art of living so that he  seems to have lived long, and to have spread  calm round him, indifference one might almost  say, certainly to his own advancement, save  that he had also great compassion.
A child  playing — a summer evening — doors will open  and shut, will keep opening and shutting,  through which I see sights that make me weep.
For they cannot be imparted.
Hence our  loneliness; hence our desolation.
I turn to that  spot in my mind and find it empty.
My own  infirmities oppress me.
There is no longer him  to oppose them.
‘Behold, then, the blue madonna streaked  with tears.
This is my funeral service.
We have  no ceremonies, only private dirges and no  conclusions, only violent sensations, each  separate.
Nothing that has been said meets our  case.
We sit in the Italian room at the National  Gallery picking up fragments.
I doubt that  Titian ever felt this rat gnaw.
Painters live lives  of methodical absorption, adding stroke to  stroke.
They are not like poets — scapegoats;  they are not chained to the rock.
Hence the  silence, the sublimity.
Yet that crimson must  have burnt in Titian’s gizzard.
No doubt he rose  with the great arms holding the cornucopia,  and fell, in that descent.
But the silence weighs  on me — the perpetual solicitation of the eye.
The pressure is intermittent and muffled.
I  distinguish too little and too vaguely.
The bell  is pressed and I do not ring or give out  irrelevant clamours all jangled.
I am titillated  inordinately by some splendour; the ruffled  crimson against the green lining; the march of  pillars: the orange light behind the black,  pricked ears of the olive trees.
Arrows of  sensation strike from my spine, but without  order.
‘Yet  something  is  added  to  my  interpretation.
Something lies deeply buried.
For one moment I thought to grasp it.
But bury  it, bury it; let it breed, hidden in the depths of  my mind some day to fructify.
After a long  lifetime, loosely, in a moment of revelation, I  may lay hands on it, but now the idea breaks in  my hand.
Ideas break a thousand times for  once that they globe themselves entire.
They  break: they fall over me.
“Line and colours they  survive, therefore .
.
.
”  ‘I am yawning.
I am glutted with  sensations.
I am exhausted with the strain and  the long, long time — twenty-five minutes, half  an hour — that I have held myself alone outside  the machine.
I grow numb; I grow stiff.
How  shall I break up this numbness which discredits  my sympathetic heart?
There are others  suffering — multitudes of people suffering.
Neville suffers.
He loved Percival.
But I can no  longer endure extremities; I want someone  with whom to laugh, with whom to yawn, with  whom to remember how he scratched his head;  someone he was at ease with and liked (not  Susan, whom he loved, but Jinny rather).
In  her room also I could do penance.
I could ask,  Did he tell you how I refused him when he  asked me to go to Hampton Court that day?
Those are the thoughts that will wake me  leaping in anguish in the middle of the night —  the crimes for which one would do penance in  all the markets of the world bareheaded; that  one did not go to Hampton Court that day.
‘But now I want life round me, and books  and little ornaments, and the usual sounds of  tradesmen calling on which to pillow my head  after this exhaustion, and shut my eyes after  this revelation.
I will go straight, then, down  the stairs, and hail the first taxi and drive to  Jinny.’  ‘There is the puddle,’ said Rhoda, ‘and I  cannot cross it.
I hear the rush of the great  grindstone within an inch of my head.
Its wind  roars in my face.
All palpable forms of life have  failed me.
Unless I can stretch and touch  something hard, I shall be blown down the  eternal corridors for ever.
What, then, can I  touch?
What brick, what stone?
and so draw  myself across the enormous gulf into my body  safely?
‘Now the shadow has fallen and the purple  light slants downwards.
The figure that was  robed in beauty is now clothed in ruin.
The  figure that stood in the grove where the steep-  backed hills come down falls in ruin, as I told  them when they said they loved his voice on  the stair, and his old shoes and moments of  being together.
‘Now I will walk down Oxford Street  envisaging a world rent by lightning; I will look  at oaks cracked asunder and red where the  flowering branch has fallen.
I will go to Oxford  Street and buy stockings for a party.
I will do  the usual things under the lightning flash.
On  the bare ground I will pick violets and bind  them together and offer them to Percival,  something given him by me.
Look now at what  Percival has given me.
Look at the street now  that Percival is dead.
The houses are lightly  founded to be puffed over by a breath of air.
Reckless and random the cars race and roar and  hunt us to death like bloodhounds.
I am alone  in a hostile world.
The human face is hideous.
This is to my liking.
I want publicity and  violence and to be dashed like a stone on the  rocks.
I like factory chimneys and cranes and  lorries.
I like the passing of face and face and  face, deformed, indifferent.
I am sick of  prettiness; I am sick of privacy.
I ride rough  waters and shall sink with no one to save me.
‘Percival, by his death, has made me this  present, has revealed this terror, has left me to  undergo this humiliation — faces and faces,  served out like soup-plates by scullions; coarse,  greedy, casual; looking in at shop-windows with  pendent parcels; ogling, brushing, destroying  everything, leaving even our love impure,  touched now by their dirty fingers.
‘Here is the shop where they sell stockings.
And I could believe that beauty is once more set  flowing.
Its whisper comes down these aisles,  through these laces, breathing among baskets  of coloured ribbons.
There are then warm  hollows grooved in the heart of the uproar;  alcoves of silence where we can shelter under  the wing of beauty from truth which I desire.
Pain is suspended as a girl silently slides open a  drawer.
And then, she speaks; her voice wakes  me.
I shoot to the bottom among the weeds and  see envy, jealousy, hatred and spite scuttle like  crabs over the sand as she speaks.
These are  our companion’s.
I will pay my bill and take my  parcel.
‘This is Oxford Street.
Here are hate,  jealousy, hurry, and indifference frothed into  the wild semblance of life.
These are our  companions.
Consider the friends with whom  we sit and eat.
I think of Louis, reading the  sporting column of an evening newspaper,  afraid of ridicule; a snob.
He says, looking at  the people passing, he will shepherd us if we  will follow.
If we submit he will reduce us to  order.
Thus he will smooth out the death of  Percival to his satisfaction, looking fixedly over  the cruet, past the houses at the sky.
Bernard,  meanwhile, flops red- eyed into some arm-  chair.
He will have out his notebook; under D,  he will enter “Phrases to be used on the deaths  of friends”.
Jinny, pirouetting across the room,  will perch on the arm of his chair and ask, “Did  he love me?” “More than he loved Susan?”  Susan, engaged to her farmer in the country,  will stand for a second with the telegram before  her, holding a plate; and then, with a kick of her  heel, slam to the oven door.
Neville, after  staring at the window through his tears, will  see through his tears, and ask, “Who passes the  window?”—“What lovely boy?” This is my  tribute to Percival; withered violets, blackened  violets.
‘Where shall I go then?
To some museum,  where they keep rings under glass cases, where  there are cabinets, and the dresses that queens  have worn?
Or shall I go to Hampton Court and  look at the red walls and courtyards and the  seemliness of herded yew trees making black  pyramids symmetrically on the grass among  flowers?
There shall I recover beauty, and  impose order upon my raked, my dishevelled  soul?
But what can one make in loneliness?
Alone I should stand on the empty grass and  say, Rooks fly; somebody passes with a bag;  there is a gardener with a wheelbarrow.
I  should stand in a queue and smell sweat, and  scent as horrible as sweat; and be hung with  other people like a joint of meat among other  joints of meat.
‘Here is a hall where one pays money and  goes in, where one hears music among  somnolent people who have come here after  lunch on a hot afternoon.
We have eaten beef  and pudding enough to live for a week without  tasting food.
Therefore we cluster like maggots  on the back of something that will carry us on.
Decorous, portly — we have white hair waved  under our hats; slim shoes; little bags; clean-  shaven cheeks; here and there a military  moustache; not a speck of dust has been  allowed to settle anywhere on our broadcloth.
Swaying and opening programmes, with a few  words of greeting to friends, we settle down,  like walruses stranded on rocks, like heavy  bodies incapable of waddling to the sea, hoping  for a wave to lift us, but we are too heavy, and  too much dry shingle lies between us and the  sea.
We lie gorged with food, torpid in the heat.
Then, swollen but contained in slippery satin,  the seagreen woman comes to our rescue.
She  sucks in her lips, assumes an air of intensity,  inflates herself and hurls herself precisely at  the right moment as if she saw an apple and  her voice was the arrow into the note, “Ah!”  ‘An axe has split a tree to the core; the core  is warm; sound quivers within the bark.
“Ah!”  cried a woman to her lover, leaning from her  window in Venice.
“Ah, ah!” she cried, and  again she cries “Ah!” She has provided us with a  cry.
But only a cry.
And what is a cry?
Then the  beetle-shaped men come with their violins;  wait; count; nod; down come their bows.
And  there is ripple and laughter like the dance of  olive trees and their myriad-tongued grey  leaves when a seafarer, biting a twig between  his lips where the many-backed steep hills  come down, leaps on shore.
‘“Like” and “like” and “like”— but what is  the thing that lies beneath the semblance of the  thing?
Now that lightning has gashed the tree  and the flowering branch has fallen and  Percival, by his death, has made me this gift, let  me see the thing.
There is a square; there is an  oblong.
The players take the square and place it  upon the oblong.
They place it very accurately;  they make a perfect dwelling-place.
Very little is  left outside.
The structure is now visible; what  is inchoate is here stated; we are not so various  or so mean; we have made oblongs and stood  them upon squares.
This is our triumph; this is  our consolation.
The sweetness of this content overflowing  runs down the walls of my mind, and liberates  understanding.
Wander no more, I say; this is  the end.
The oblong has been set upon the  square; the spiral is on top.
We have been  hauled over the shingle, down to the sea.
The  players come again.
But they are mopping their  faces.
They are no longer so spruce or so  debonair.
I will go.
I will set aside this  afternoon.
I will make a pilgrimage.
I will go to  Greenwich.
I will fling myself fearlessly into  trams, into omnibuses.
As we lurch down  Regent Street, and I am flung upon this  woman, upon this man, I am not injured, I am  not outraged by the collision.
A square stands  upon an oblong.
Here are mean streets where  chaffering goes on in street markets, and every  sort of iron rod, bolt and screw is laid out, and  people swarm off the pavement, pinching raw  meat with thick fingers.
The structure is visible.
We have made a dwelling-place.
‘These, then, are the flowers that grow  among the rough grasses of the field which the  cows trample, wind-bitten, almost deformed,  without fruit or blossom.
These are what I  bring, torn up by the roots from the pavement  of Oxford Street, my penny bunch, my penny  bunch of violets.
Now from the window of the  tram I see masts among chimneys; there is the  river; there are ships that sail to India.
I will  walk by the river.
I will pace this embankment,  where an old man reads a newspaper in a glass  shelter.
I will pace this terrace and watch the  ships bowling down the tide.
A woman walks  on deck, with a dog barking round her.
Her  skirts are blown; her hair is blown; they are  going out to sea; they are leaving us; they are  vanishing this summer evening.
Now I will  relinquish; now I will let loose.
Now I will at  last free the checked, the jerked- back desire to  be spent, to be consumed.
We will gallop  together over desert hills where the swallow  dips her wings in dark pools and the pillars  stand entire.
Into the wave that dashes upon  the shore, into the wave that flings its white  foam to the uttermost corners of the earth, I  throw my violets, my offering to Percival.’  The sun no longer stood in the middle of the  sky.
Its light slanted, falling obliquely.
Here it  caught on the edge of a cloud and burnt it into a  slice of light, a blazing island on which no foot  could rest.
