Now, says  the doctor, in two years I shall retire.
I shall clip  yew hedges in a west country garden.
An  admiral I might have been; or a judge; not a  schoolmaster.
What forces, he asks, staring at  the gas-fire with his shoulders hunched up  more hugely than we know them (he is in his  shirt-sleeves remember), have brought me to  this?
What vast forces?
he thinks, getting into  the stride of his majestic phrases as he looks  over his shoulder at the window.
It is a stormy  night; the branches of the chestnut trees are  ploughing up and down.
Stars flash between  them.
What vast forces of good and evil have  brought me here?
he asks, and sees with  sorrow that his chair has worn a little hole in  the pile of the purple carpet.
So there he sits,  swinging his braces.
But stories that follow  people into their private rooms are difficult.
I  cannot go on with this story.
I twiddle a piece of  string; I turn over four or five coins in my  trouser pocket.’  ‘Bernard’s stories amuse me,’ said Neville,  ‘at the start.
But when they tail off absurdly and  he gapes, twiddling a bit of string, I feel my own  solitude.
He sees everyone with blurred edges.
Hence I cannot talk to him of Percival.
I cannot  expose my absurd and violent passion to his  sympathetic understanding.
It too would make  a “story”.
I need someone whose mind falls like  a chopper on a block; to whom the pitch of  absurdity is sublime, and a shoe-string  adorable.
To whom I can expose the urgency of  my own passion?
Louis is too cold, too  universal.
There is nobody here among these  grey arches, and moaning pigeons, and cheerful  games and tradition and emulation, all so  skilfully organized to prevent feeling alone.
Yet  I am struck still as I walk by sudden  premonitions of what is to come.
Yesterday,  passing the open door leading into the private  garden, I saw Fenwick with his mallet raised.
The steam from the tea-urn rose in the middle  of the lawn.
There were banks of blue flowers.
Then suddenly descended upon me the  obscure, the mystic sense of adoration, of  completeness that triumphed over chaos.
Nobody saw my poised and intent figure as I  stood at the open door.
Nobody guessed the  need I had to offer my being to one god; and  perish, and disappear.
His mallet descended;  the vision broke.
‘Should I seek out some tree?
Should I  desert these form rooms and libraries, and the  broad yellow page in which I read Catullus, for  woods and fields?
Should I walk under beech  trees, or saunter along the river bank, where  the trees meet united like lovers in the water?
But nature is too vegetable, too vapid.
She has  only sublimities and vastitudes and water and  leaves.
I begin to wish for firelight, privacy, and  the limbs of one person.’  ‘I begin to wish,’ said Louis, ‘for night to  come.
As I stand here with my hand on the  grained oak panel of Mr Wickham’s door I  think myself the friend of Richelieu, or the  Duke of St Simon holding out a snuff-box to  the King himself.
It is my privilege.
My  witticisms “run like wildfire through the court”.
Duchesses tear emeralds from their earrings  out of admiration — but these rockets rise best  in darkness, in my cubicle at night.
I am now a  boy only with a colonial accent holding my  knuckles against Mr Wickham’s grained oak  door.
The day has been full of ignominies and  triumphs concealed from fear of laughter.
I am  the best scholar in the school.
But when  darkness comes I put off this unenviable body  — my large nose, my thin lips, my colonial  accent — and inhabit space.
I am then Virgil’s  companion, and Plato’s.
I am then the last  scion of one of the great houses of France.
But I  am also one who will force himself to desert  these windy and moonlit territories, these  midnight wanderings, and confront grained oak  doors.
I will achieve in my life — Heaven grant  that it be not long — some gigantic  amalgamation between the two discrepancies  so hideously apparent to me.
Out of my  suffering I will do it.
I will knock.
I will enter.’  ‘I have torn off the whole of May and June,’  said Susan, ‘and twenty days of July.
I have  torn them off and screwed them up so that they  no longer exist, save as a weight in my side.
They have been crippled days, like moths with  shrivelled wings unable to fly.
There are only  eight days left.
In eight days’ time I shall get  out of the train and stand on the platform at six  twenty five.
Then my freedom will unfurl, and  all these restrictions that wrinkle and shrivel —  hours and order and discipline, and being here  and there exactly at the right moment — will  crack asunder.
Out the day will spring, as I  open the carriage-door and see my father in his  old hat and gaiters.
I shall tremble.
I shall burst  into tears.
Then next morning I shall get up at  dawn.
I shall let myself out by the kitchen door.
I shall walk on the moor.
The great horses of  the phantom riders will thunder behind me and  stop suddenly.
I shall see the swallow skim the  grass.
I shall throw myself on a bank by the  river and watch the fish slip in and out among  the reeds.
The palms of my hands will be  printed with pine- needles.
I shall there unfold  and take out whatever it is I have made here;  something hard.
For something has grown in  me here, through the winters and summers, on  staircases, in bedrooms.
I do not want, as Jinny  wants, to be admired.
I do not want people,  when I come in, to look up with admiration.
I  want to give, to be given, and solitude in which  to unfold my possessions.
‘Then I shall come back through the  trembling lanes under the arches of the nut  leaves.
I shall pass an old woman wheeling a  perambulator full of sticks; and the shepherd.
But we shall not speak.
I shall come back  through the kitchen garden, and see the curved  leaves of the cabbages pebbled with dew, and  the house in the garden, blind with curtained  windows.
I shall go upstairs to my room, and  turn over my own things, locked carefully in  the wardrobe: my shells; my eggs; my curious  grasses.
I shall feed my doves and my squirrel.
I  shall go to the kennel and comb my spaniel.
So  gradually I shall turn over the hard thing that  has grown here in my side.
But here bells ring;  feet shuffle perpetually.’  ‘I hate darkness and sleep and night,’ said  Jinny, ‘and lie longing for the day to come.
I  long that the week should be all one day  without divisions.
When I wake early — and the  birds wake me — I lie and watch the brass  handles on the cupboard grow clear; then the  basin; then the towel-horse.
As each thing in  the bedroom grows clear, my heart beats  quicker.
I feel my body harden, and become  pink, yellow, brown.
My hands pass over my  legs and body.
I feel its slopes, its thinness.
I  love to hear the gong roar through the house  and the stir begin — here a thud, there a patter.
Doors slam; water rushes.
Here is another day,  here is another day, I cry, as my feet touch the  floor.
It may be a bruised day, an imperfect day.
I am often scolded.
I am often in disgrace for  idleness, for laughing; but even as Miss  Matthews grumbles at my feather-headed  carelessness, I catch sight of something moving  — a speck of sun perhaps on a picture, or the  donkey drawing the mowing-machine across  the lawn; or a sail that passes between the  laurel leaves, so that I am never cast down.
I  cannot be prevented from pirouetting behind  Miss Matthews into prayers.
‘Now, too, the time is coming when we  shall leave school and wear long skirts.
I shall  wear necklaces and a white dress without  sleeves at night.
There will be parties in  brilliant rooms; and one man will single me out  and will tell me what he has told no other  person.
He will like me better than Susan or  Rhoda.
He will find in me some quality, some  peculiar thing.
But I shall not let myself be  attached to one person only.
I do not want to be  fixed, to be pinioned.
I tremble, I quiver, like  the leaf in the hedge, as I sit dangling my feet,  on the edge of the bed, with a new day to break  open.
I have fifty years, I have sixty years to  spend.
I have not yet broken into my hoard.
This is the beginning.’  ‘There are hours and hours,’ said Rhoda,  ‘before I can put out the light and lie suspended  on my bed above the world, before I can let the  day drop down, before I can let my tree grow,  quivering in green pavilions above my head.
Here I cannot let it grow.
Somebody knocks  through it.
They ask questions, they interrupt,  they throw it down.
‘Now I will go to the bathroom and take off  my shoes and wash; but as I wash, as I bend my  head down over the basin, I will let the Russian  Empress’s veil flow about my shoulders.
The  diamonds of the Imperial crown blaze on my  forehead.
I hear the roar of the hostile mob as I  step out on to the balcony.
Now I dry my hands,  vigorously, so that Miss, whose name I forget,  cannot suspect that I am waving my fist at an  infuriated mob.
“I am your Empress, people.”  My attitude is one of defiance.
I am fearless.
I  conquer.
‘But this is a thin dream.
This is a papery  tree.
Miss Lambert blows it down.
Even the  sight of her vanishing down the corridor blows  it to atoms.
It is not solid; it gives me no  satisfaction — this Empress dream.
It leaves  me, now that it has fallen, here in the passage  rather shivering.
Things seem paler.
I will go  now into the library and take out some book,  and read and look; and read again and look.
Here is a poem about a hedge.
I will wander  down it and pick flowers, green cowbind and  the moonlight-coloured May, wild roses and ivy  serpentine.
I will clasp them in my hands and  lay them on the desk’s shiny surface.
I will sit  by the river’s trembling edge and look at the  water-lilies, broad and bright, which lit the oak  that overhung the hedge with moonlight beams  of their own watery light.
I will pick flowers; I  will bind flowers in one garland and clasp them  and present them — Oh!
to whom?
There is  some check in the flow of my being; a deep  stream presses on some obstacle; it jerks; it  tugs; some knot in the centre resists.
Oh, this is  pain, this is anguish!
I faint, I fail.
Now my  body thaws; I am unsealed, I am incandescent.
Now the stream pours in a deep tide fertilizing,  opening the shut, forcing the tight-folded,  flooding free.
To whom shall I give all that now  flows through me, from my warm, my porous  body?
I will gather my flowers and present  them — Oh!
to whom?
‘Sailors loiter on the parade, and amorous  couples; the omnibuses rattle along the sea  front to the town.
I will give; I will enrich; I will  return to the world this beauty.
I will bind my  flowers in one garland and advancing with my  hand outstretched will present them — Oh!
to  whom?’  ‘Now we have received,’ said Louis, ‘for this is  the last day of the last term — Neville’s and  Bernard’s and my last day — whatever our  masters have had to give us.
The introduction  has been made; the world presented.
They stay,  we depart.
The great Doctor, whom of all men I  most revere, swaying a little from side to side  among the tables, the bound volumes, has dealt  out Horace, Tennyson, the complete works of  Keats and Matthew Arnold, suitably inscribed.
I  respect the hand which gave them.
He speaks  with complete conviction.
To him his words are  true, though not to us.
Speaking in the gruff  voice of deep emotion, fiercely, tenderly, he has  told us that we are about to go.
He has bid us  “quit ourselves like men”.
(On his lips  quotations from the Bible, from The Times,  seem equally magnificent.)
Some will do this;  others that.
Some will not meet again.
Neville,  Bernard and I shall not meet here again.
Life  will divide us.
But we have formed certain ties.
Our boyish, our irresponsible years are over.
But we have forged certain links.
Above all, we  have inherited traditions.
These stone flags  have been worn for six hundred years.
On these  walls are inscribed the names of men of war, of  statesmen, of some unhappy poets (mine shall  be among them).
Blessings be on all traditions,  on all safeguards and circumscriptions!
I am  most grateful to you men in black gowns, and  you, dead, for your leading, for your  guardianship; yet after all, the problem  remains.
The differences are not yet solved.
Flowers toss their heads outside the window.
I  see wild birds, and impulses wilder than the  wildest birds strike from my wild heart.
My  eyes are wild; my lips tight pressed.
The bird  flies; the flower dances; but I hear always the  sullen thud of the waves; and the chained beast  stamps on the beach.
It stamps and stamps.’  ‘This is the final ceremony,’ said Bernard.
This is the last of all our ceremonies.
We are  overcome by strange feelings.
The guard  holding his flag is about to blow his whistle; the  train breathing steam in another moment is  about to start.
One wants to say something, to  feel something, absolutely appropriate to the  occasion.
One’s mind is primed; one’s lips are  pursed.
And then a bee drifts in and hums  round the flowers in the bouquet which Lady  Hampton, the wife of the General, keeps  smelling to show her appreciation of the  compliment.
If the bee were to sting her nose?
We are all deeply moved; yet irreverent; yet  penitent; yet anxious to get it over; yet  reluctant to part.
The bee distracts us; its casual  flight seems to deride our intensity.
Humming  vaguely, skimming widely, it is settled now on  the carnation.
Many of us will not meet again.
We shall not enjoy certain pleasures again,  when we are free to go to bed, or to sit up, when  I need no longer smuggle in bits of candle-ends  and immoral literature.
The bee now hums  round the head of the great Doctor.
Larpent,  John, Archie, Percival, Baker and Smith — I  have liked them enormously.
I have known one  mad boy only.
I have hated one mean boy only.
I enjoy in retrospect my terribly awkward  breakfasts at the Headmaster’s table with toast  and marmalade.
He alone does not notice the  bee.
If it were to settle on his nose he would  flick it off with one magnificent gesture.
Now  he has made his joke; now his voice has almost  broken but not quite.
Now we are dismissed —  Louis, Neville and I for ever.
We take our  highly polished books, scholastically inscribed  in a little crabbed hand.
We rise, we disperse;  the pressure is removed.
The bee has become  an insignificant, a disregarded insect, flown  through the open window into obscurity.
Tomorrow we go.’  ‘We are about to part,’ said Neville.
‘Here  are the boxes; here are the cabs.
There is  Percival in his billycock hat.
He will forget me.
He will leave my letters lying about among  guns and dogs unanswered.
I shall send him  poems and he will perhaps reply with a picture  post card.
But it is for that that I love him.
I  shall propose meeting — under a clock, by some  Cross; and shall wait, and he will not come.
It is  for that that I love him.
Oblivious, almost  entirely ignorant, he will pass from my life.
And  I shall pass, incredible as it seems, into other  lives; this is only an escapade perhaps, a  prelude only.
I feel already, though I cannot  endure the Doctor’s pompous mummery and  faked emotions, that things we have only dimly  perceived draw near.
I shall be free to enter the  garden where Fenwick raises his mallet.
Those  who have despised me shall acknowledge my  sovereignty.
But by some inscrutable law of my  being sovereignty and the possession of power  will not be enough; I shall always push through  curtains to privacy, and want some whispered  words alone.
Therefore I go, dubious, but elate;  apprehensive of intolerable pain; yet I think  bound in my adventuring to conquer after huge  suffering, bound, surely, to discover my desire  in the end.
There, for the last time, I see the  statue of our pious founder with the doves  about his head.
They will wheel for ever about  his head, whitening it, while the organ moans  in the chapel.
So I take my seat; and, when I  have found my place in the comer of our  reserved compartment, I will shade my eyes  with a book to hide one tear; I will shade my  eyes to observe; to peep at one face.
It is the  first day of the summer holidays.’  ‘It is the first day of the summer holidays,’ said  Susan.
‘But the day is still rolled up.
I will not  examine it until I step out on to the platform in  the evening.
I will not let myself even smell it  until I smell the cold green air off the fields.
But already these are not school fields; these  are not school hedges; the men in these fields  are doing real things; they fill carts with real  hay; and those are real cows, not school cows.
But the carbolic smell of corridors and the  chalky smell of schoolrooms is still in my  nostrils.
The glazed, shiny look of matchboard  is still in my eyes.
I must wait for fields and  hedges, and woods and fields, and steep railway  cuttings, sprinkled with gorse bushes, and  trucks in sidings, and tunnels and suburban  gardens with women hanging out washing, and  then fields again and children swinging on  gates, to cover it over, to bury it deep, this  school that I have hated.
‘I will not send my children to school nor  spend a night all my life in London.
Here in this  vast station everything echoes and booms  hollowly.
The light is like the yellow light under  an awning.
Jinny lives here.
Jinny takes her dog  for walks on these pavements.
People here  shoot through the streets silently.
They look at  nothing but shop-windows.
Their heads bob up  and down all at about the same height.
The  streets are laced together with telegraph wires.
The houses are all glass, all festoons and glitter;  now all front doors and lace curtains, all pillars  and white steps.
But now I pass on, out of  London again; the fields begin again; and the  houses, and women hanging washing, and trees  and fields.
London is now veiled, now vanished,  now crumbled, now fallen.
The carbolic and the  pitch-pine begin to lose their savour.
I smell  corn and turnips.
I undo a paper packet tied  with a piece of white cotton.
The egg shells  slide into the cleft between my knees.
Now we  stop at station after station, rolling out milk  cans.
Now women kiss each other and help  with baskets.
Now I will let myself lean out of  the window.
The air rushes down my nose and  throat — the cold air, the salt air with the smell  of turnip fields in it.
And there is my father,  with his back turned, talking to a farmer.
I  tremble, I cry.
There is my father in gaiters.
There is my father.’  ‘I sit snug in my own corner going North,’  said Jinny, ‘in this roaring express which is yet  so smooth that it flattens hedges, lengthens  hills.
We flash past signal-boxes; we make the  earth rock slightly from side to side.
The  distance closes for ever in a point; and we for  ever open the distance wide again.
The  telegraph poles bob up incessantly; one is  felled, another rises.
Now we roar and swing  into a tunnel.
The gentleman pulls up the  window.
I see reflections on the shining glass  which lines the tunnel.
I see him lower his  paper.
He smiles at my reflection in the tunnel.
My body instantly of its own accord puts forth a  frill under his gaze.
My body lives a life of its  own.
Now the black window glass is green  again.
We are out of the tunnel.
He reads his  paper.
But we have exchanged the approval of  our bodies.
There is then a great society of  bodies, and mine is introduced; mine has come  into the room where the gilt chairs are.
Look —  all the windows of the villas and their white-  tented curtains dance; and the men sitting in  the hedges in the cornfields with knotted blue  handkerchiefs are aware too, as I am aware, of  heat and rapture.
One waves as we pass him.
There are bowers and arbours in these villa  gardens and young men in shirt-sleeves on  ladders trimming roses.
A man on a horse  canters over the field.
His horse plunges as we  pass.
And the rider turns to look at us.
We roar  again through blackness.
And I lie back; I give  myself up to rapture; I think that at the end of  the tunnel I enter a lamp-lit room with chairs,  into one of which I sink, much admired, my  dress billowing round me.
But behold, looking  up, I meet the eyes of a sour woman, who  suspects me of rapture.
My body shuts in her  face, impertinently, like a parasol.
I open my  body, I shut my body at my will.
Life is  beginning.
I now break into my hoard of life.’  ‘It is the first day of the summer holidays,’  said Rhoda.
‘And now, as the train passes by  these red rocks, by this blue sea, the term, done  with, forms itself into one shape behind me.
I  see its colour.
June was white.
I see the fields  white with daisies, and white with dresses; and  tennis courts marked with white.
Then there  was wind and violent thunder.
There was a star  riding through clouds one night, and I said to  the star, “Consume me.” That was at  midsummer, after the garden party and my  humiliation at the garden party.
Wind and  storm coloured July.
Also, in the middle,  cadaverous, awful, lay the grey puddle in the  courtyard, when, holding an envelope in my  hand, I carried a message.
I came to the puddle.
I could not cross it.
Identity failed me.
We are  nothing, I said, and fell.
I was blown like a  feather, I was wafted down tunnels.
Then very  gingerly, I pushed my foot across.
I laid my  hand against a brick wall.
I returned very  painfully, drawing myself back into my body  over the grey, cadaverous space of the puddle.
This is life then to which I am committed.
‘So I detach the summer term.
With  intermittent shocks, sudden as the springs of a  tiger, life emerges heaving its dark crest from  the sea.
It is to this we are attached; it is to this  we are bound, as bodies to wild horses.
And yet  we have invented devices for filling up the  crevices and disguising these fissures.
Here is  the ticket collector.
Here are two men; three  women; there is a cat in a basket; myself with  my elbow on the window-sill — this is here and  now.
We draw on, we make off, through  whispering fields of golden corn.
Women in the  fields are surprised to be left behind there,  hoeing.
The train now stamps heavily, breathes  stertorously, as it climbs up and up.
At last we  are on the top of the moor.
Only a few wild  sheep live here; a few shaggy ponies; yet we are  provided with every comfort; with tables to  hold our newspapers, with rings to hold our  tumblers.
We come carrying these appliances  with us over the top of the moor.
Now we are  on the summit.
Silence will close behind us.
If I  look back over that bald head, I can see silence  already closing and the shadows of clouds  chasing each other over the empty moor;  silence closes over our transient passage.
This I  say is the present moment; this is the first day  of the summer holidays.
This is part of the  emerging monster to whom we are attached.’  ‘Now we are off,’ said Louis.
‘Now I hang  suspended without attachments.
We are  nowhere.
We are passing through England in a  train.
England slips by the window, always  changing from hill to wood, from rivers and  willows to towns again.
And I have no firm  ground to which I go.
Bernard and Neville,  Percival, Archie, Larpent and Baker go to  Oxford or Cambridge, to Edinburgh, Rome,  Paris, Berlin, or to some American University.
I  go vaguely, to make money vaguely.
Therefore  a poignant shadow, a keen accent, falls on these  golden bristles, on these poppy-red fields, this  flowing  corn  that  never  overflows  its  boundaries; but runs rippling to the edge.
This  is the first day of a new life, another spoke of  the rising wheel.
But my body passes vagrant as  a bird’s shadow.
I should be transient as the  shadow on the meadow, soon fading, soon  darkening and dying there where it meets the  wood, were it not that I coerce my brain to form  in my forehead; I force myself to state, if only  in one line of unwritten poetry, this moment;  to mark this inch in the long, long history that  began in Egypt, in the time of the Pharaohs,  when women carried red pitchers to the Nile.
I  seem already to have lived many thousand  years.
But if I now shut my eyes, if I fail to  realize the meeting-place of past and present,  that I sit in a third-class railway carriage full of  boys going home for the holidays, human  history is defrauded of a moment’s vision.
Its  eye, that would see through me, shuts — if I  sleep now, through slovenliness, or cowardice,  burying myself in the past, in the dark; or  acquiesce, as Bernard acquiesces, telling  stories; or boast, as Percival, Archie, John,  Walter, Lathom, Larpent, Roper, Smith boast —  the names are the same always, the names of  the boasting boys.
They are all boasting, all  talking, except Neville, who slips a look  occasionally over the edge of a French novel,  and so will always slip into cushioned firelit  rooms, with many books and one friend, while I  tilt on an office chair behind a counter.
Then I  shall grow bitter and mock at them.
I shall envy  them their continuance down the safe  traditional ways under the shade of old yew  trees while I consort with cockneys and clerks,  and tap the pavements of the city.
‘But now disembodied, passing over fields  without lodgment —(there is a river; a man  fishes; there is a spire, there is the village street  with its bow-windowed inn)— all is dreamlike  and dim to me.
These hard thoughts, this envy,  this bitterness, make no lodgment in me.
I am  the ghost of Louis, an ephemeral passer-by, in  whose mind dreams have power, and garden  sounds when in the early morning petals float  on fathomless depths and the birds sing.
I dash  and sprinkle myself with the bright waters of  childhood.
Its thin veil quivers.
But the chained  beast stamps and stamps on the shore.’  ‘Louis and Neville,’ said Bernard, ‘both sit  silent.
Both are absorbed.
Both feel the  presence of other people as a separating wall.
But if I find myself in company with other  people, words at once make smoke rings — see  how phrases at once begin to wreathe off my  lips.
It seems that a match is set to a fire;  something burns.
An elderly and apparently  prosperous man, a traveller, now gets in.
And I  at once wish to approach him; I instinctively  dislike the sense of his presence, cold,  unassimilated, among us.
I do not believe in  separation.
We are not single.
Also I wish to  add to my collection of valuable observations  upon the true nature of human life.
My book  will certainly run to many volumes, embracing  every known variety of man and woman.
I fill  my mind with whatever happens to be the  contents of a room or a railway carriage as one  fills a fountain-pen in an inkpot.
I have a steady  unquenchable  thirst.
Now  I  feel  by  imperceptible signs, which I cannot yet  interpret but will later, that his defiance is  about to thaw.
His solitude shows signs of  cracking.
He has passed a remark about a  country house.
A smoke ring issues from my  lips (about crops) and circles him, bringing him  into contact.
The human voice has a disarming  quality —(we are not single, we are one).
As we  exchange these few but amiable remarks about  country houses, I furbish him up and make him  concrete.
He is indulgent as a husband but not  faithful; a small builder who employs a few  men.
In local society he is important; is already  a councillor, and perhaps in time will be mayor.
He wears a large ornament, like a double tooth  torn up by the roots, made of coral, hanging at  his watch-chain.
Walter J. Trumble is the sort  of name that would fit him.
He has been in  America, on a business trip with his wife, and a  double room in a smallish hotel cost him a  whole month’s wages.
His front tooth is  stopped with gold.
‘The fact is that I have little aptitude for  reflection.
I require the concrete in everything.
It is so only that I lay hands upon the world.
A  good phrase, however, seems to me to have an  independent existence.
Yet I think it is likely  that the best are made in solitude.
They require  some final refrigeration which I cannot give  them, dabbling always in warm soluble words.
My  method,  nevertheless,  has  certain  advantages over theirs.
Neville is repelled by  the grossness of Trumble.
Louis, glancing,  tripping with the high step of a disdainful  crane, picks up words as if in sugar-tongs.
It is  true that his eyes — wild, laughing, yet  desperate — express something that we have  not gauged.
There is about both Neville and  Louis a precision, an exactitude, that I admire  and shall never possess.
Now I begin to be  aware that action is demanded.
We approach a  junction; at a junction I have to change.
I have  to board a train for Edinburgh.
I cannot  precisely lay fingers on this fact — it lodges  loosely among my thoughts like a button, like a  small coin.
Here is the jolly old boy who  collects tickets.
I had one — I had one certainly.
But it does not matter.
Either I shall find it, or I  shall not find it.
I examine my note-case.
I look  in all my pockets.
These are the things that for  ever interrupt the process upon which I am  eternally engaged of finding some perfect  phrase that fits this very moment exactly.’  ‘Bernard has gone,’ said Neville, ‘without a  ticket.
He has escaped us, making a phrase,  waving his hand.
He talked as easily to the  horse-breeder or to the plumber as to us.
The  plumber accepted him with devotion.
“If he had  a son like that,” he was thinking, “he would  manage to send him to Oxford.” But what did  Bernard feel for the plumber?
Did he not only  wish to continue the sequence of the story  which he never stops telling himself?
He began  it when he rolled his bread into pellets as a  child.
One pellet was a man, one was a woman.
We are all pellets.
We are all phrases in  Bernard’s story, things he writes down in his  notebook under A or under B.
He tells our story  with extraordinary understanding, except of  what we most feel.
For he does not need us.
He  is never at our mercy.
There he is, waving his  arms on the platform.
The train has gone  without him.
He has missed his connection.
He  has lost his ticket.
But that does not matter.
He  will talk to the barmaid about the nature of  human destiny.
We are off; he has forgotten us  already; we pass out of his view; we go on, filled  with lingering sensations, half bitter, half  sweet, for he is somehow to be pitied, breasting  the world with half-finished phrases, having  lost his ticket: he is also to be loved.
‘Now I pretend again to read.
I raise my  book, till it almost covers my eyes.
But I cannot  read in the presence of horse-dealers and  plumbers.
I have no power of ingratiating  myself.
I do not admire that man; he does not  admire me.
Let me at least be honest.
Let me  denounce this piffling, trifling, self-satisfied  world; these horse-hair seats; these coloured  photographs of piers and parades.
