TREATISE ON UNIFICATION


In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Blessings upon our master, Muḥammad, and upon his family and companions. This is a noble treatise in which I have consigned a tremendous discourse.

From my incompleteness to my completeness, and from my inclination to my equilibrium

From my grandeur to my beauty, and from my splendour1 to my majesty2

From my scattering to my gathering, and from my exclusion >to my reunion3

From my baseness to my preciousness, and from my stones to my pearls

From my rising to my setting, and from my days to my nights

From my luminosity to my darkness, and from my guidance to my straying

From my perigee to my apogee, and from the base of my lance to its tip4

From my waxing to my waning, and from the void of my moon to its crescent

From my pursuit to my flight, and from my steed to my gazelle5

From my breeze to my boughs, and from my boughs to my shade

From my shade to my bliss, and from my bliss to my wrath6

From my wrath to my likeness, and from my likeness to my impossibility7

From my impossibility to my validity, and from my validity to my deficiency

I am no one in existence but myself, so -

Whom do I treat as foe and whom do I treat as friend?

Whom do I call to aid my heart, pierced by a penetrating arrow,

When the archer is my eyelid,8 striking my heart without an arrow?9

Why defend my station? It matters little to me; what do I care?

For I am in love with none other than myself, and my very separation is my union.10

Do not blame me for my passion. I am inconsolable over the one who has fled me.



In this book I never cease addressing myself about myself and returning in it to myself from myself.

From my heaven to my earth, from my exemplary practice to my religious duty,11

From my pact to my perjury,12 from my length to my breadth.13

• • •

From my sense to my intellect and from my intellect to my sense,

- From whence derive two strange sciences, without doubt or confusion.

From my soul to my spirit and from my spirit to my soul,

- By means of dissolution and coagulation, like the corpse in the tomb.14

From my intuition to my knowledge and from my knowledge to my intuition,

- Continuous is the light of knowledge; ephemeral the light of intuition.

From my sanctity to my impurity and from my impurity to my sanctity,

- Sanctity is in my present and impurity is in yesterday.

From my human–nature to my jinn–nature, and from my jinn–nature to my human–nature,

- For my jinn–nature seeks to disquiet me and my humannature seeks to set me at ease.

From the narrowness of my body to the vastness of my soul, And from the vastness of my soul to the prison of my body,

- For my soul denies my intellect and my intellect my soul.

From my entity to my nonentity, and my nonentity to my entity,

- Where I rejoice to find my composition and lament to find my dispersion.

From my likeness to my opposite and from my opposite to my likeness,

- Were it not for Bāqil no light of excellence would shine in Quss.15

From my sun to my full moon and from my full moon16 to my sun,

- So that I might bring to light what lies hidden in night’s core.

From Persian to Arab and from Arab to Persian,17

- To explain the mysteries’ roots and express the realities’ enigmas.

From my root to my branch and from my branch to my root,

- For the sake of a life that was buried in death, animate or inanimate.

Pay no heed, my soul, to the words of that jealous spite–monger,

Or to the remarks of that ignorant presumer, O myrtle of my soul!

How many ignoramuses have slandered us spiritual beings!

While my revelation descends from the Spirit of inspiration and sanctity,

He is like a man possessed by a demon whose touch makes him tremble.18

On the matter of spiritual realization mankind does not cease to err,

For God’s secret is poised between the shout and the whisper.



I have called this treatise “Cosmic unification in the presence of essential witnessing, through the assembling of the Human Tree and the Four Spiritual Birds.” I have dedicated it to Abū al–Fawāris ṣakhr ibn Sinān, master of the reins of generosity and eloquence. I seek help from God. He is my support and my assistance, glory be to him!19





Dedication


To the third and the second — the master of the triads and dyads — the one alluded to in the doubled words of praise,20 the evanescent conqueror who restrains his mount, the one who turns toward his shadow and bows his head in humility; the generous one whose generosity never runs dry, the perfect being whose existence is not known, the one who is sent from the two divine presences and the envoy of the two powers; he whose foundations are certain, whose possibility is discounted, and whose place is known; channel of subtle graces, reality of time, goal of faith, seat of Mercy, subtlety of the moment, sultan of men and jinn, Jānn son of jinn,21 pupil of man’s eye, beneficent giver, Abū al–Fawāris Sakhr b. Sinān, master of the reins of generosity and eloquence. I ask God to give him the most perfect and elevated of ranks.

May he receive the scent of the most perfect and the most pure of greetings, as well as the mercy and benedictions of God, the most Exalted.

I praise God who has “fashioned” me and “balanced” me,22 and cast me in “the most beautiful of constitutions”.23 For he made me know myself through myself and caused me to appear to myself, so that I became enamoured of only myself. Between my distance and my proximity I have become mad with love for myself, and I address myself alone.

Were I to see myself when I came to myself by myself, secretly or openly,

And said, “Greetings” and answered, “At your service”,

And if my turning were from me to me,

My very “Here I am! “ would annihilate me from myself,

From my enemies and my trusty friends,

From my threat [of punishment] and my surplus [grace],

From my delight and my promises [of paradise],

From my witnessing and my testimony.

What wonderful favour would be mine through myself!

Oh I! Return me by me to me until I see my stability.

He returned me by me to me from me, and only my qualities subsisted in me.

My palm grasped my stick, my staff smote my rock;

The river of constellations flowed from it: Twelve heralds!24

I said to myself: Oh I! Add constancy to my constancy!

These are the sciences of life, scattering light from all that grows upon my being.

Where in me does that subtle secret reside that God has placed within my essences?

I was filled with what I sought from myself, but my desire for death remained.

I took to complaining to myself of my passion so that my signs would appear

Upon my eyelids from the essence of my creation.

Then he lavished gathering on my scattering.

My essence conjoined passionately with my essence, for my essence, my whole life long.

I did not hold my harshness against myself,

Or the length of my abandonment or my misdeeds–

I am my beloved and my lover; I am my knight and my maiden.25



This book came to me from the city situated on the equator, assigned to the temperate clime,26 fortified by [spiritual] powers: Mount Sinai, the Land Made Safe,27 fashioned of water and clay,28 uniting the “most beautiful of constitutions” with the “lowest of degrees”. This treatise informed me of what passed between myself and myself and what my existence contemplated of my existence.

When the signs of witnessing were lifted from me and the suffering of spiritual combat was removed, and harmony and succour began to flow through me, I mounted the Burāq29 of my spiritual aspiration and departed from the cycle of this grief. I fell into the sea of hylic matter, and beheld the next world and the present one.30 I said: “May he perish, whoever denies the gardens and the abode of life, the sporting boys and embracing houris,31 and the union of bodies with bodies! He who sees the Preserver affirms the existence of the Speaker, for the line of equilibrium does not waver.” I understood here that those who deny the resurrection of the body will continue to waver and will never be rid of the noose of the four and the two.32

Then I shouted: “Oh alas!” and “Alas, my burning heart. I fled from the universe and here I am in it. Where is what I seek? “

I heard a voice coming from me — but neither inside me nor outside me — say: “Why do you demand a high station when you are on the road? What have you to do with the sittings [on the Throne]?33 What have you to do with the celestial couches and sublime litters?34 What have you to do with the uppermost horizon?35 What have you to do with the screens of splendour? What have you to do with the radiant curtain? What have you to do with the Cloud?36 What have you to do with the impenetrable Veil of Sublimity?37 What have you to do with the absolute ipseities? What have you to do with the confirmed realities? What have you to do with the presence of allusions? What have you to do with the conversations? What have you to do with the nightly confidences? What have you to do with the sublime Tree? What have you to do with the branches of the world? What have you to do with the strange ‘Anqā’? What have you to do with the Ringdove? What have you to do with the Jet–Black Crow? What have you to do with the Royal Eagle? O you who are veiled, how can you ask ’where?’ about the Essence, when you are in a station that does not admit lies! “

I answered: “Oh you who rebuke me, your words have wounded me.38 Do you not know that you speak from your own station? You are in the presence of the Essence, divested of time and place, while I am in this dark39 abyss,40 in this black gloom and this fearful calamity,41 in this mine of lies and doubt, this place of faults and defects. Does the prisoner of quantity and the one confined to wise maxims not cry out: Woe! If you extract me from the crashing waves and deliver me from the struggles of this gloomy night I will never more pronounce an adverb or stop at a particle.”

Through his irresistible power he attracted me to himself and said to me: “You are vanquished, so seek help! “42

I said: “I will save myself by your right hand, for both your hands are right hands.43 For he is the powerful, the trustworthy, the faithful, and the true one who never lies.”

He said: “How can one mock me whose hope abides in me?” I said: “Just like one who praises you bestows favour upon you.” When he attracted me to himself I saw myself in another form than my previous one. I established myself there and took a firm position.

I said: “Oh I!”

He said: “ I, welcome!”

I said: “No welcome, no greetings, no make yourself at ease!” He said: “Oh eye–balm, what is disquieting you? Oh prisoner of creation, what is afflicting you?”

I answered: “You do not cease from veiling me from myself. Unveil me to myself so that I can know myself! Here is my tablet outspread, my banner is raised, my knowledge is delimited, my station is praised, my secret self44 is witnessed, my heart45 is found, the goal I seek is lost, and I, in my world, am what is sought.46 I am called the word of existence.47 If these entities were to become annihilated, if these creatures were to vanish, and if I were to retreat from the Throne of Mercy and the lordly name, I would be able to enjoy the divine regard and not be harmed by this favour.”48

He said: “The pens have been spent, the signs have gone away, the names have departed, the Throne has been veiled, the tablets have been put away, and the hearts and spirits have been lost. But these are necessary: the dark–green49 gloom of the Garden, the sphere of water, the Supreme Pen, the first step, the hidden letter nūn,50 and the guarded right hand.”51

When I heard that there was still a trace of createdness before me, I feared that it would cut me off from my cognizance. So I rose from that gloomy darkness, leaving the Burāq of my aspiration in it. I was transported to the thrones of subtle grace and the couches52 of the celestial cushions,53 until I reached the station of rejoicing where I set myself to oscillate like a hanging lamp.541 said: “What have I to do with the state of audition?”55

Someone said: “It is the beauty of the rhythm that has set you in motion.”

I said: “I didn’t feel it.”

Someone said to me: “Be careful! For you are with yourself and not with him!”

I said: “Reality is beyond the rhythms of song. What it demands is extinction within extinction.”

Then a veil was lowered between my essence and its Essence and a state came between me and it.

Then he said to me: “Where are you, do you belong to the world or to me?”

I said: “[I am] between drudgery and desire. My goal is the blinding Cloud56 while I am in the water. My spirit is in the heavens while my throne is in the primordial Dust and my family is in Sabā.57 My kingdom is in the Throne and my authority in the two feet of equivalence.58 My constellation is in the celestial sphere,59 my veil is in the angel, my obscurity is in prime matter, and my trial is in this world.60 My beginning is the first state61 while my end is the next world. My intimacy is in the intimate friend Abraham; my conversations are in Moses, who spoke with God; my vicegerency is in Aaron, the sage; my elevation is in Idrīs; my form is in Joseph; my knowledge in its diversity and multiplicity is in Jesus; my body is in Adam, the father of mankind; my heart is from Abraham, the greatest of masters; and my physical frame is in the four elements.”62

He said: “That is your portion from my creation, but where is your portion from my essence?”

I said: “Oh you, who speak by allusion! Relationship exists either with something contrary or something similar, and when the similar is inherent [to this relationship] it is inherent essentially and necessarily.”

The one who speaks by allusion said: “I mean the relationship of the similar.”

I said: “My trace is yours and my attribute is yours. Summation is better than particularization63 in this manner, for the sake of the Wayfarers.”

He said: “You’ve spoken correctly. But where is the relationship of the contrary, according to reality, not according to equivocation?”

I said: “In my non–existence is your existence and in my avarice is your generosity; in your speech is my muteness and in your discourse is my bell–peal. In my impossibility is your eternity and in my beginning is your precedence.”

He said: “I know now that you know. How excellent is your judgement!”

Then the Universal Tree of the garden, described as the Likeness,64 was unveiled to me. I observed a tree “whose root is firm and whose branches are in the heavens.”65 Its fruit is in the hand of the Deity, who sits upon the Throne. Among its branches sat the Crow and the strange ‘Anqā’, and in the shelter of its boughs perched the Eagle and the Ringdove. I greeted the Tree and it answered, greeting me even more finely It said: “Listen, O wayfarer, O king.”





Discourse of the Universal Tree, Described as the Likeness


I am the Universal Tree of synthesis and likeness. I have deep roots and my branches are lofty. The hand of the One66 planted me in the garden of eternity, protected from the vicissitudes of time. I have spirit and body. My fruit is gathered with no hand touching it. These fruits contain more sciences and knowledge than sound intellects and subtle hearts can bear. My leaves are “raised couches”,67 my fruits are not “out of reach nor yet forbidden”.68 My centre is the desired goal. My branches perpetually draw nigh and come down.69 Some come down to provide benefit and aid, while some draw nigh gradually to bestow favour. My constitution is like the celestial sphere in roundness and my branches are homes to the winged spirits. My flowers are like the stars whose course engenders the minerals, flowing in their bodies.

I am the Tree of light, speech, and the eye–balm of Moses,70 upon whom be peace. Of directions mine is the most excellent righthanded one, of places mine is the holy valley.71 Of times mine is the instant. Of dwelling places, mine is the equator72 and the temperate climes.731 have perpetuity, everlastingness, and felicity without misery. The fruits of my two gardens are near to hand74 and my bough sways loftily as if intoxicated. It bestows grace and tenderness on all living creatures. My branches always offer frankincense to the spirits of the Guarded Tablet, and my foliage is a protection for them against the diurnal rays. My shade extends over those whom God envelops in his solicitude and my wings are spread over the people of sainthood. The spirit–winds blow on me from many different directions75 and disarrange the order of my branches. From this entanglement one hears such melodious sounds. They enrapture the supreme intellects in the utmost heights and set them running on the course inscribed upon their scroll.

I am the music of wisdom that removes care through the beauty of its rhythmic song. I am the luminous light. Mine is the green carpet and the most resplendent round face. Assisted by the powers and ennobled by the one who is seated on the Throne, I have become like prime matter,76 receiving all forms in the afterworld and the present one. I am not too narrow to bear anything! I am never apart from a faithful light that shines upon me; it consoles the one who leans upon me.

I am the “spreading shade”,77 the clustered plantains,78 the intended meaning,79 the word of existence,80 the most noble of originated beings, the most transcendent of limited beings. My power is unsurpassable, my place most holy, my lamp most elevated.81 I am the source from which issue the lights, the synthesis of the divine words,82 the mine of secrets and wisdoms.

Mine are the vast earth and the heavens.

In my centre are equivalence and straightness.83

Mine are the firmly–rooted84 majesty, the splendour,

The secret of the worlds, and the exaltation.85

When thoughts betake themselves to my essence

The distance and the blinding Cloud bewilder them.

No one in the universe knows my existence

Save one undelimited by praise.86

He disposes over and governs us.

The choice is his87 - he does what he wills.88





Discourse of the Ringdove


When the Ringdove heard the Universal Tree’s discourse and the eternal knowledge it brought forth, she uttered a cry in the garden of her sanctity, declaring about herself:

When God wished to bring my creation into existence, he made me contemplate my own essence; he encircled my neck with the ring of splendour and he gave me the “Lote Tree of the Limit”89 as a dwelling place. He called to the Eagle, assuring him that he would be preserved from punishment.90 The Eagle, who was in the courtyard91 in front of his door, answered obediently: “Your call is heard.” He told him: “Now you are in exile, even though you remain in the locus of my proximity. I am not of your kind, so you must feel lonely. But in you is eye–balm. Make her appear in reality. Enjoy92 her company and be cheered by her conversation, because familiarity with me is impossible, for I am ’mighty in power’.”93

The Eagle asked: “How can something be manifested from me when my station is weakness and my power and might have no authority? ”

He answered him: “Continue to call plaintively and that very one will appear before you, face to face. This is the second harmony and union through doubling.”

The Eagle obeyed. He doubled his plaint and I appeared; the Real called me and I hastened. The Eagle, however, had not understood what was happening, since he was preoccupied with the dower and my coming into existence from his loins. When he heard me respond to the divine call, he asked: “What is this that has appeared?”

As soon as he had seen me, he fell in love with me. The beauty God had surrounded94 me with made him mad with love. Passion made him groan with pain: “I’m burning! I’m drowning!” He was like a nightingale, warbling his plaint,95 trying to heal his condition, but the burning only became more extensive and solace more impossible. I would not permit him to kiss me, although his cure was in lying with me and embracing me. The veils of doubt were raised, and from behind the pavilions of the Unseen someone called: “What is wrong with you that you don’t regard her lineaments and the performance of her song? Why have you not looked upon her qualities and the marvels of her wisdom? ”

He called me to him. “Here I am!” I responded. He commanded me to sit before him. He said: “I was so inflamed with ardour at your form that I overlooked the knowledge of your spiritual qualities. The divine order has come that you make yourself known to me and that a ray of your sunlight shine for me.”

I said: “God has brought me into existence from you, face to face.96 And he has made me manifest from your loins, following our inclination for one another. I emanate from your power and am manifested through your form. God has entrusted me with two realities and has given me two subtle threads:97 one reality by which I know and one reality by which I bring into existence what I wish by means of its occasion.98 One thread is attached to you; it is sent down to me when I desire you and draws me to your presence. The second joins me to him and is sent down to me when he calls me to him.”

When he heard that a subtle thread extended from me to him, and having verified the realities of love, the Eagle descended toward me along this thread. My essence mingled with his,99 my qualities disappeared into his, and we were absorbed in the pleasures of union, cheered by the attainment of harmony. The spiritual wedding took place. The two waters flowed together in the womb of the moment, which received them in virtue of that divine wisdom that bestows grace to some and accords misery to others.100 The lover recovered from his malady and found rest in a desire to answer the divine call. Wavering between two desires, he set in the two wests and rose in the two easts.101

When he had recovered from his suffering and had departed to his abode, I found in myself a fullness that I had never before known. The paths and roads to him were blocked. The divine thread moved and I said: “Oh, my God. What is this that has befallen me?”

He said: “Exhale102 when you mention me so that the word of my command may manifest from you.”

So I exhaled like one oppressed. And there was the ‘Anqā’, who filled my refuge with life. Ask the ‘Anqā’ about herself and she will tell you what God has deposited in her of his subtle graces and what he has given to her of knowledge.

I am the Dove of oft–repeated praises.103

My dwelling is in the Garden of spiritual meanings.

I am an essence in the entities. I have nothing but dualities.

They call me “O second!” - but I am not second.

Everything in creation ends up at my existence.

I come after the one whose essence is too high for sight.

My authority is useful to those most far and near.

I have no likeness save one whose nature is similar to mine.

Reproach me if you wish for what my tongue brings forth:

Beautiful realities descend upon threads

Toward the hearts that turn from the ornaments of the gardens

In search of the one who transcends the vicissitudes of time.

He is the singular, the exalted. No second shares his authority.

He is the one who elected me;

He is the one who selected me.

He has placed me in equilibrium between pot and potter.104

I banish every distant one and draw each near one closer.

I befriend every friend and I afflict all the wretched.

When I swoop down low, it is with the spirit of diffusing,

And when I rise high above, bodily constitutions dissolve.

It is I who confer sense and leave the inhabited places deserted.105





Discourse of the Royal Eagle


When the Eagle heard what the Ringdove had mentioned and what she had related about the certain sciences, he said: “What she has affirmed is true. She has disclosed to you all the sciences she encompasses.”

I said to him: “Fly through the air of your eloquence and tell us clearly about your nature.” The throne of the Eagle shook. He flapped his wings joyfully and said:

I am the Eagle.

To me belong the most elevated station, beauty, and the most brilliant shining light.

I carry out everything according to its determined rank

On this world’s shores, but my power is more inaccessible.

I am his sublime effusion, the light of his existence.

I am he who summons existence and it obeys.

I am the one who never ceases to be the “handful” of my creator,106

The instrument of his openhandedness.

The realities hurry toward me to seek their fill.107

I give to and withhold from whomever I wish.

If I approach, the beauty of his being dazzles me.

If I retreat, his most magnificent splendour summons me.

Approach confers upon me a pleasing wisdom

But it rends the heart of the high one.

Distance invests me with an apportioned command

Whose light illuminates their borders.108

When I am distant I am the commander–

My misery is in my command and my felicity when it is removed.

The most pleasing of my moments is when I see the essences of the new moons arising.



I was still non–existent as an entity in one of the levels of creation when the divine solicitude came forth and made my existence the beginning. Having manifested himself to himself, my existence was prolonged in my contemplation. I received the supreme rank through the form,109 and the most secret part of my being became his Throne.110 The divine all–encompassing Name sat itself down upon me. His two viziers, He–who–gives and He–who–withholds, and his two chamberlains, He–who–confers–harm and He–who–con–fers–good, stood at his two stirrups.111 When the sitting had taken place, and the other112 appeared, and the names “mighty” and “sublime” were given to me, the courtyard became filled. Subsistence and annihilation113 appeared; just allotment and effusive plenty followed one another in alternating course, and expansiveness and contraction were firmly established. By the kingdom the king was confirmed, by the message the angel became manifest, and by the stars the sphere was set in motion.

Then he called me to instruct me with the language of arbitration: “Look into your essence, bringing together all that delights you.” When I began to look and could distinguish between those that required precedence and those that required contemplation, I laid down the different laws and divided the lights between merits and graces.114 I said to those enraptured spirits whom I surveyed: “Adhere to the enrapturing presence!” And I said to the subjected spirits whom I surveyed: “Adhere to the subjecting stations!” And I said to the governing spirits whom I surveyed: “Adhere to the governed bodies!” Each of these departed to seek its waystation in order to contemplate there the one who had caused them to descend. I had already seen the Ringdove, pregnant with the strange ‘Anqā’, but in dividing up the waystations, I had neglected the one who shares my waystation.115

I am the knowledge of creation concealed in the cloak of the divine inviolability. A band of philosophers invented lies116 about me and a gang of noblemen tried to capture me. They set up the fowler’s net of their thoughts to hunt me and used against me the very means that I myself had provided them with in order to gain from my toil. And when their spiritual aspirations were sufficient to grasp me in their fowler’s net of thought, there fell into it an eagle with my form from the country of illusion. They said, “This is the clear truth!” Would that they knew that the truth is not clear to them and never will be. Knowledge of me and my existence depends upon what is granted as a gift or recompensed for merit.117 Satan incited them to doubt and they imagined that they had alighted at the summit when their station was the low plains. They mistook anteriority for eternity,118 declaring me eternal and that my existence did not stem from non-existence.1191 abandoned them to their confusion “like meat on the butcher’s block.” Those who commit an injustice to the divine command must be oppressed! I am free from what they attribute to me, and an unbeliever120 in what they set up. For God, may his glory be magnified, was from all eternity while I was under the decree of non–existence. Then he brought me into existence from non-existence through a pre-eternal precedence, and my essence became manifest. He illuminated my existence with his knowledge and entrusted me with poverty and weakness, turning me away from might and glory. I am the humble one who has no glory and the powerful one who does not cease to be weak.121





Discourse of the Strange ‘Anqā


When the Eagle completed his discourse and finished explaining his station, the ‘Anqā’ began to speak clearly about her existence and spoke strangely122 about the high rank of her limit.123

She said: I am the strange ‘Anqā’. My dwelling is forever in the west,124 in the middle station, on the banks of the surrounding sea.125 Glory embraces me on two sides without my entity ever becoming manifest at all.

I am the one who has no existent entity, the one who lacks no property,

Strange Anqā’, they’ve come to call me.

Although the door of my existence is sealed

The Merciful has not made my mention in vain

But it has to do with a meaning whose secret must be sought -

It is that I am the one who bestows gnosis to their innermost beings.

Our straight path stretches on, and the wayfarers are each at the levels of their light:

The greatest one is he whose light is sheer detachment.



Limits126 derive from me, and upon me existence depends. One hears mention of me but I am invisible, and the report of me is not one that can be declared a lie. I am the strange one, the ‘Anqā’. My mother is the Ringdove and my father the Royal Eagle. My son is the Jet–Black Crow. I am the element of light and darkness, the place of trust and suspicion. I do not receive the unqualified light, for it is my contrary. I am unacquainted with knowledge, for I cannot produce or reproduce.127 Everyone who praises me is far from understanding me, subdued by the sultan of imagination. I have no might in which to seek protection. The bodily frames of superior and inferior creation trace their origin to me. I am the reality that has no character, because of the vastness that I have. I clothe every condition with either happiness or misery. I am capable of bearing any form. I have no rank in any known form. But I have received the gift of transmitting the sciences although I am no knower, and of bestowing determinations although I am no judge. Nothing can be manifested that I am not in, but no seeker can attain it as something grasped or perceived in its entirety. I am of very great value in the eyes of those who realize the truth. I wander through the gathering of those with bowed heads.128 Thus I have explained my state and have made manifest what is true and what is impossible about myself.





Discourse of the Jet–Black Crow


The Crow arose and said: I am the body of lights and the bearer of the receptacle of secrets,129 the receptacle of quality and quantity, and the cause of joy and sorrow. I am the leader who is led. Sense and sensible are mine and through me appear the traces [of existence]. From me arises the world of material bodies. I am the source of figures, and likenesses are struck according to the levels of my form. I am the lamp130 and the winds. I am the chain against the pebbles131 and the wing. I am the sea whose waves constantly strike one another.132 I am, of the numbers, the singular among counted numbers and its pair. My width is the abode of the charismatic gifts of his friends and my depth is the abode of Abuse to his enemies. My height has not ceased to be face to face with his essence, through eternity without beginning and end, ever since I was brought into existence. I am the alembic of wisdom, the music of melody, and the one who brings together the realities of the words. In directing oneself toward me, one reaches the limit,133 and those who are endowed with intelligence134 rely upon me. I am the most precious gift135 that has been bestowed, the final goal that has no end.136 For my sake some are accepted and others rejected. I am those who are rolled and held in his right hand, and I am enclosed in the grasp of the evident truth.137 The Real summoned me into his presence and I came. He called me to his knowledge and I readily responded. I am the form of the celestial sphere and the place of royalty. Upon me he established the Throne and I was given the name “place where it was established”.1381 am the subsequent139 who is not overtaken, just as the Eagle is the precedent140 who is not outstripped. He is the first and I am the last. His is the non–manifest dimension and mine is the manifest one. Existence has been divided between myself and him. I manifest his might and his creation, while his judgement depends on me. My knowledge flows in him, and his knowledge flows in me. When its bestower offers it, it is for our benefit, and when I acquire it, he thanks me for increasing it even more.

Some alleging to be endowed with unshakeable reason made their claim and imposed their dubious judgement. They showered me with unseemly derision and divested me of the robe of seemly praise. But the evil consequences of their actions will turn against them and their mocking will encompass them when, in the depths [of my hell]141 they will call for help and be answered: “Begone therein and speak not unto me”,142 while in the breadth [of my paradise]143 those who praised me well will make merry with their spouses “in a garden made joyful”.144 The Law has already praised me so what do I care? The received text has made clear my rank, so why say more?

I am, with respect to my Lord, a wisdom for one who sees me,

For I am the secret whose nature was fashioned without fingertips.

My creator ordered everything within himself when he constructed me,

For I am a rock, and from me the spiritual meanings flash.145

Together with the superior beings, [we are] like contesting racehorses,

Yet I am one who conceals himself modestly from view.

I’m the one who answered my Lord obediently when he summoned me.

He who, because of time’s vicissitudes, sees my existence

Like the heart of Moses’ mother, empty of spiritual meanings,146

Is completely void147 of the verities of explanation.

I am the source of habitations and the foundation of songs.

I am the secret of an Imam, a noble one, high in place,

Whose knowledge is the most perfect knowledge

And whose rank is the greatest rank.

He fell in love with me when he saw me in the enclosures of the gardens.

I do not name him for I fear the spearhead’s148 sharpness.149

But he who understands my riddle is Sakhr ihn Sinān –

The one who possesses the most generous hand

And the one who is most steadfast in combat.

Mother, Grandmother, Grandfather, and I:

The spiritual meanings of our existence derive from God, timelessly,

Like what becomes visible to the eye in the air brightened with lightning150



Oh ṣakhr ibn Sinān, I have explained to you some of the stations of the sources of the creatures: the universal human being, the first intellect, the unique soul, prime matter, and universal body. Investigate them like an intelligent man who seeks the salvation of his soul.

Peace be upon its author and upon us!


1. The words sanâ’ (grandeur) and sanâ (splendour) form utajnīs zā ‘id, that is, they are homonymous save for the addition of the letter hamza to the first term.

2. Majesty and Beauty are two Divine Attributes that seemingly oppose one another much as the Kabbalistic sefirot Gevurah (Rigour) and Hesed (Mercy) do. See Fut. IL 133, 541, 542; IV. 251, 269.

3. The terms ṣudüd and wiṣāl suggest opposing gestures on the part of the Beloved, who at times obstructs union and at times allows it, in keeping with His Attributes of Majesty and Beauty.

4. Gril points out (Arbre, p. 3 6, n. 4), that zijāj and ’awâlī, terms pertaining to the measure of a lance, signal “descending and ascending tendencies along an axial line”.

5. There is a nice parallel drawn here between the hunter on his steed in pursuit of the fleeing gazelle and the poet, who is both hunter and gazelle.

6. For this translation oi miḥāl, see Q. 13:13: “He launcheth the thunderbolts and smiteth with them whom He will while they dispute concerning Allah, and He is mighty in wrath (miḥāl)!’

7. Muḥāl, “impossibility”, nicely complements miḥāl, “wrath”, in the previous line.

8. Jafn, “eyelid”, can also mean “scabbard” or “sheath”. See Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 2, p.434, s.v.jafn.

9. The glance of the beloved, who is none other than the poet himself, pierces his own heart and causes him to fall in love with himself.

10. Ibn ‘Arabī repeats these lines in Fut. II 390.

11. Farḍ and sunna are two terms drawn from Islamic law, the first having to do with required religious duties, the second with recommended ones, based on the Prophet Muḥammad’s practice.

12. The Arabic pair ibrām and naqḍ, in addition to the concrete meaning of braiding and unbraiding a rope, suggests in legal terms the conclusion of a pact and its violation.

13. ṭül (length) and ’ard (width) again suggest movement along an axis. Ibn ‘Arabī was much influenced by al-Ḥallāj’s esoteric interpretation of this pair of terms. See, for example, Fut. I. 169, Chap. 20, in which he attributes to al-Hallāj the notion that length has to do with action in the world of spirits and width has to do with action in the world of bodies.

14. These two terms, taḥlīl and tarkīb, are, in addition to their common meaning of “dissolving” and “composition”, an allusion to the alchemical process.

15. Quss and Bāqil are two semi-legendary pre-Islamic figures. Quss ibn Sā’ida, a ḥanīf of Najran, was an orator of the highest rank, and Muḥammad committed an excerpt of one of his sermons to memory (see Hoyland, Arabia and the Arabs, p. 222). Bāqil, on the other hand, was a stutterer. The eloquent Quss and the tongue-tied Bāqil became proverbial (see Gril, Arbre, p. 39, n. 12).

16. The Perfect Human Being is sometimes compared to the full moon, which reflects the sun (the Real) most completely.

17. Although the terms ’urb and furs refer to the peoples designated by these names, there is another sense here of things that are clearly stated (from the root ’-R-B) versus unintelligible (from another name for the Persians: al-’ajam). See Gril’s note (Arbre, p. 39, n.13): “These two terms refer to the state of non-manifestation or of revelation of divine mysteries to which two modes of expression correspond: allusion (ishāra) and clear expression (ibara). Ibn ‘Arab! employs mu’jam (from ’ajamt) and mu’rab (from ’arabt) in the same sense.”

18. See Q.2:275: “Those who swallow usury cannot rise up save as he ariseth whom the devil hath prostrated by [his] touch.”

19. I have chosen to place all third-person singular pronouns in lower case in light of the ambiguous nature of the divine-human relationship in this treatise. There is additional justification for this in that Arabic pronouns, even when referring to the Divinity, are not indicated by capital letters.

20. As Gril mentions, this refers to the opening sura of the Qur’an, the Fātiha, often called “the seven doubled” or “oft-repeated” since it contains seven lines and is recited repeatedly in every ritual prayer. According to Ibn ‘Arabī, the Perfect Human Being “opens” or initiates (fataḥa) existence just as the Fātiha opens the Qur’an. See Gril, Arbre, p. 10. The inner structure of the Fātiḥa is based on a division of the sura into two parts, one of which belongs to the Lord and one to the servant. At the same time, it is a synthesis of the entire Qur’an. These three aspects are echoed in the first verse of the Fātiḥa: “In the Name of Allah, the All-Merciful, the All-Compassionate”. The Name Allah embraces all Divine Names and Attributes while All-Merciful and All-Compassionate express nuanced modalities of Mercy (raḥma). See Fut. I. 102, Chap. 5.

21. Arabic: Jānn ibn Jānn. Jānn is a plural of jinnī, the shape-shifting, fiery spirits mentioned frequently in the Qur’an. It also can mean “father of the jinn” (see Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 2, p.462, s.v. jānn) or “a small white serpent, a great serpent, or a species of serpent having black-bordered eyes, inclining to yellow, harmless, and abounding in houses” (Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 2, p. 464, s.v. jānn). Jānn with this meaning is found twice in the Qur’an (Q.27:10; 28:31) in connection with Moses’ staff: “But when he saw it writhing like a jānn, he turned to flee headlong.”

22. See Q. 82:7-8: “Who created thee, then fashioned, then proportioned thee, into whatsoever form He will, He casteth thee.”

23. Q.95:4: “Surely We created man in the most beautiful of constitutions.”

24. See Q.2:60: “And when Moses asked for water for his people, We said: Smite with thy staff the rock. And there gushed out therefrom twelve springs [so that] each tribe knew their drinking place.” See also Q.7:60: “We divided them into twelve tribes, nations; and We inspired Moses, when his people asked him for water, saying: Smite with thy staff the rock! And there gushed forth therefrom twelve springs, so that each tribe knew their drinking-place.” See also Fut. II 441, where the rivers mentioned in the verse are placed within the three different Gardens of Paradise: four in the Garden of the Elites, four in the Garden of Inheritance, and four in the Garden of Deeds. The rivers are then assigned various types of sciences. The river of unbrackish water = the science of life; the river of wine = the science of states; the river of honey = the science of revelation; and the river of milk = the science of the secrets.

25. Ibn ‘Arab! repeats these lines in Fut. II 390.

26. Arabic: mustawā. Gril (Arbre, p.44, n.29): “The line of the equator or the equinoxes cuts in its centre the horizontal plane of manifestation (mustawā) or the place of the divine establishment on the Throne (al-istiwā’ ‘alā l-’arsh).”

27. Mecca. According to Gril (Arbre, p. 44, n.30), Mount Sinai = “the most beautiful of constitutions”, that is the Perfect Human Being who is created upon the divine form; the Land Made Safe = Mecca, at the heart of which is the cube of the Ka’ba, draped in its black covering. For dark things being ideal receptacles for divine lights and secrets, see our Commentary, p. 103. This passage relates particularly to Q. 95:1-5 : “By the fig, by the olive, by Mount Sinai, by this land made safe. Surely We created man of the most beautiful constitution. Then We reduced him to the lowest of the low.”

28. SeeQ.6:2; 15:26; 25:54.

29. Fabulous steed on which the Prophet rode on his Night Journey to the highest heavens. For the mystic, it is often linked to the initial stages of the Path, when spiritual concentration and correct intention are of particular importance.

30. The vision of heaven and hell takes place in the Barzakh. See Commentary, p. 79. Note that one variant reads: “I fell into the sea of destruction and beheld he who affirms and he who denies.”

31. For the beautiful women of Paradise, see Q.44:54; 52:20; 55:72; 56:22.

32. Four and two are both even numbers that are polarized without resolution. Among the four things that have such an antagonistic relationship to one another are the four elements. Some of the Divine Names are also polarized, for example He who gives life and He who causes death, and are metaphorically engaged in “disputing with” one another. See, for example, Fut. I, Chap. 56; Fut. II, Chap. 73, question 86; Fut. II, Chap. 154; Fut. Ill, Chaps 306, 336.

33. Arabic plural: istiwā’āt. See Q. 53:6 and Gril’s note (Arbre, p. 46, n. 35): “istiwā’ is thus for the creature the equilibrium between contrary tendencies and the deliverance from existential limits.”

34. See Q. 55:76: “Reclining on green cushions and fair carpets.”

35. See Q. 53:7: “When he was on the uppermost horizon.”

36. The Cloud is referred to in a hadith in which, before creation, God is said to have been in a Cloud above and below which there was no air.

37. See Fut. I, Chap. 73, question 153 : “… it is blindness and perplexity.” None can penetrate it and gain knowledge of God’s Essence.

38. The root K-L-M has to do with both speech and wounding. For this latter, see Ibn ‘Arabī’s discussion of the Prophet Idrīs as the Healer of Wounds (Muḍāwī al-kulüm), Fut. I, Chap. 14.

39. The root ’-M.-Y conveys the sense of blindness and obscurity. The word ’immiyyā also means “trial”, “slaughter”, and “conflict.” See Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 5, p.2162, s.v. ’immiyyā.

40. Lujja can also mean “sea”.

41. In Arabic, the expression uses two words from the same root: dāhiya al-dahyā.

42. See Q. 54:10: “So he [Noah] cried unto his Lord, saying: I am vanquished, so give help!”

43. Reference to a hadith: “Both the hands of my Lord are blessed right hands.”

44. Arabic: sirr. Another meaning is the innermost part of the heart.

45. Arabic: lubb. The kernel, or inner part of the heart.

46. The text gives “ma’büd” (worshipped), but I translate according to the variant. See the Universal Tree’s discourse, p. 37, n.79, where the Tree describes himself as the “intended meaning”.

47. This refers to the Arabic word Kun (Be!), God’s Word that brought all creation into existence. The Universal Tree also gives this as one of his epithets. See p.38,n. 80.

48. Gril (Arbre, p. 49, n.49), points out the qualities that the Perfect Human Being must have in order to accomplish his spiritual goal. This paragraph contains references to the prophetic accoutrements: banner (liwā’) and praised station (maqām maḥmūd).

49. Possible reference to Q. 55:64.

50. The letter nūn is found at the beginning of Sura 70 of the Qur’an, called “The Pen”.

51. The right hand moves the Supreme Pen.

52. Arabic: muttākā’āt. See Q. 12:31: “And when she [Zulaykha] heard of their sly talk, she sent for them and prepared for them a cushioned couch.”

53. Arabic: rafārif. See Q.55:76: “Reclining on green cushions (rafraf) and fair carpets.” Note also that rafrafa means to flutter like a bird, hence the rafraf’was sometimes considered to be one of the vehicles Muḥammad was transported in on his celestial ascensions.

54. See also Ibn ‘Arabī’s Risālat al-anwār, p. 189; English trans. (Harris, Lord of Power) p. 47. See also notes from al-Jilī’s Commentary of R. al-anwār, entitled al-Isfār ‘an risālat al-anwār, translated in Lord of Power, p. 88, n. 21 : “Know … that this place is a stage demanding the greatest courage from seekers. For if they arrive in it and this oneness manifests itself to them … they suppose that they have arrived in the Presence of the Unity and triumphed in the essential revelation. This is because of the divine bliss they find in this stage and the fact that any reality other than their own is absent from it.”

55. Arabic: samā. Gril (Arbre, p. 50, n.52) notes that audition for Ibn ‘Arab! consists of two sorts : one in which the hearer delights in the harmonies and rhythms of sensible melodies and songs; the other in which the hearer is absorbed in the supra-sensible realm and does not engage in movement at all. See Fut. I. 210-11 and Fut. II 366-9.

56. A reference to a much-cited hadith. The Prophet Muḥammad was asked, “Where was our Lord before He created the creatures?” He answered: “He was in a Cloud, neither above which nor below which was there any air.” Ibn ‘Arab! explains that the Cloud is “the nearest of existent things to God” (Fut. II 310). Within it the cosmos takes shape.

57. See Q.27:22;34:15.

58. The two feet of equivalence (sawâ’) are found at the level of the Footstool (al-kursī). It is at this level that the cosmos is polarized into opposing Names and Attributes.

59. Arabic: fulk and falak, whose orthography is identical.

60. Literally, the first. This world, as contrasted to the “last” world mentioned in the following line.

61. See Q.79:10-11: “Shall we really be restored to our first state even after we are crumbled bones?”

62. The seven prophets enumerated in this series are the same ones encountered by the Prophet Muḥammad during his mi ‘rāj. They are associated with seven planets and seven attributes: Saturn - Abraham - intimacy; Jupiter - Moses - face-to-face-conversation; Mars - Aaron - vicegerency; Sun - Idrīs - elevation; Venus - Joseph -form of beauty; Mercury - Jesus - diverse sciences; Moon - Adam - body.

It is odd that Abraham should be mentioned twice, occurring both at the head and the foot of the list. It may be, as Stephen Hirtenstein has suggested to me, that when the Real, in descending through the levels of existence, reaches the lowest heaven, that of the Moon, It is met by the heart of the Perfect Human Being, symbolized here by Abraham, the custodian of the heart. The heart, in turn, is the synthesizing spiritual organ in which the four elements combine. In the mi ‘rāj literature, Abraham’s place is the Visited House (al-Bayt al-Ma’mūr), the celestial equivalent of the Ka’ba, whose microcosmic equivalent is the heart of the believer. See Hirtenstein, “The Brotherhood of Milk”.

63. Arabic: tafṣīl. For these two opposing terms, described in terms of the Supreme Pen and the Preserved Tablet, see Fut. I. 295; Fut. IL 283.

64. Arabic: mithliyya. The Perfect Human Being is often described as being the likeness (mithl), since he was created upon the form of the Real.

65. Q. 14:24.

66. The Tree was planted by God’s one hand while Adam was created with God’s two hands.

67. Q.56:34.

68. Q.56:33.

69. See Q. 53:8.

70. See Q.20:10; 27:7-8; 28:29-30. Moses was in search of fire for his family when he chanced upon the Burning Bush.

71. See Q.20:12;79:16. It was from the right side of the valley that the tree called to Moses (Q.28:30).

72. Arabic: khatt al-istiwā’. The word “istiwā"’ is also associated with the All-Merciful’ sitting on the Throne (Q.20:5).

73. Arabic: i’tidāl al-arkān. It can also mean “moderation of elements”. The sense here is that the Tree is positioned in the centre of creation, the pivot-point of existence.

74. See Q. 55:54: “… the fruit of both gardens near to hand.” Note the alliteration here : janā jannatayya.

75. Arabic: bi-ikhtilafi taṣārifihā, literally, with the opposition of their vicissitudes. The sense here is of the opposing attributes of the Divine Names.

76. See Commentary, p. 96, for the relationship between the Perfect Human Being and Prime Matter.

77. Q.56:30.

78. Q.56:29.

79. Arabic: al-ma’na al-maqṣūd. A possible reference to the offspring of dyadic oppositions, the “singularity” (fardiyya) that equilibrates contraries. Thus, for example, in the syllogism, it is the conclusion, the “third thing” that results from the “cosmic marriage” of two premises. In alchemy, it is the gold that is the product of the marriage of sulphur and mercury (see Fut. II 270, Chap. 167). For more on the cosmic marriage, see Commentary, p. 103.

80. A reference to God’s cosmogonie word: Be!

81. A reference to Q.24:35-6.

82. The Prophet Muḥammad is called by this epithet.

83. Arabic: al-sawā’ wa-l-istiwā’. These two terms suggest ontological levels as well as the ideas of straightness, likeness, and moderation. The first is often equated with the Footstool, the second with the Throne upon which the All-Merciful sits (see Q.20:5). As Gril remarks (Arbre, p. 56, n. 72), sawā’ has been defined by Ibn Arab! in his istilāḥāt as “the occultation of God in the creature and the creature in God.” See also Fut. IL 128, Chap. 73, which has the same definition, adding: “This is only in one who knows that he is a locus of manifestation for the Real.”

84. Arabic: mu’aththal. The word conveys the sense not only of being firmly rooted but also suggests permanence. The athl is a kind of tamarisk tree, mentioned in the Qur’an (Q. 34:16) in connection with the gardens of Sabā (Sheba).

85. Also: ascension, as one ascends the throne.

86. It is impossible to praise God as befits Him, by any quality or Name, since “every one of His names known to us is assumed by the servant as his own trait and by it he becomes qualified to the measure that is appropriate for him” (Fut. III. 148; trans. Chittick, SPK, p. 71). As Chittick adds, parenthetically, “Hence there is no name worthy of God’s unique Essence.”

87. Literally: “He is the Chooser” (al-mukhtār).

88. Q.3:40; 14:27; 22:18: “Allah doth what He will.” This line is repeated in Fut. IV. 198 at the end of a poem on the Lordly Presence.

89. See Q.53:13-16.

90. A play on words here. “Punishment” Çiqāba) is from the same root as “eagle” Çuqāb).

91. Another play on words, in that finā' (courtyard) fanā' (annihilation) are from the same root F-N-Y. The Supreme Pen is often said to have been singled out from among the Enraptured Angels, who are annihilated in the beauty and majesty of the Real. See, for example, Fut. I, Chap. 13; I. 295.

92. From the same root as “soul” (nafs) and “breath” (nafas).

93. Q. 13:13. Note the paronomasia between muḥāl (impossible) and miḥāl (power).

94. Arabic: ṭawwaqanī. It could also mean “he embraced me”.

95. Arabic: balbala bulbulun balbālahu. A fine play of words here on words from the quadriliteral root B-L-B-L, meaning “nightingale” (bulbul), to disquiet (balbala), and anxiety (balbāl), which the author complements by ending the following line with bāl (mind /state).

96. Arabic: ’ inda al-taqābūl. The sense is both of facing and opposing.

97. Arabic: raqīqa. See Commentary, pp. 85-6.

98. Arabic: sabab. This means the secondary cause, the primary cause being God who, in reality, is the only true cause.

99. See our Commentary, pp. 53-4, regarding the possibility of the intermingling (here imtizāj) of essences.

100. Arabic: man ḥurima wa-man ruḥima, literally “one who is refused and one who is accorded mercy”. Note the transposition of the letters ḥâ’ and râ’ to give opposite meanings. As Gril notes (Arbre, p. 14), the Eagle represents the pole of severity and the Ringdove the pole of mercy, already inherent in the right and left branches of the Tree.

101. See Q. 55:17: “Lord of the two easts, and Lord of the two wests.” The exoteric sense of “two easts” may refer to the extreme points where the sun rises in winter and summer, while the “two wests” may be the extreme points where the sun sets in summer and winter. See Pickthall, Glorious Qur’an, p. 590, and Yūsuf ‘Ali, Meaning of the Glorious Qur’an, p. 1474, n.5184. The latter adds “extreme” to qualify the points and says that they include all points in between. Hence God is everywhere. Additional esoteric meanings are given by Ibn ‘Arab! in another early work, the ’Anqā’ mughrib. The east in general is associated with the world of manifestation, while the west is associated with the world of transcendence (see Elmore, Islamic Sainthood, p.493). With respect to the two solar risings, he says: “Even as the sun necessarily changes its time of rising and shifts its place - similarly your own ‘Sun’ must rise upon the exterior of your physical constitution. And know that the sun, by an inherent [motion] is constantly circulating from the west to the east, even as it proceeds by [compulsion from] another from the east to the west, though sight is unable [to perceive the former movement] and the mind is staggered [by its computation]. But it must be that one day [the Sun rising from the West] will openly manifest its [inherent] movement [eastwards] and [freely] bestow its blessing.” (Trans. Elmore, Islamic Sainthood, p. 487.) Note: the sun’s rising in the west is a sign of the Mahdi’s coming.

102. This command suggests the Breath of the All-Merciful, which relieves the non-existent fixed entities (al-a’yān al-thābita) from the distress of their latent possibility by bringing them into existence.

103. Arabic: mathānī. See Commentary, pp.87-8.

104. Arabic: bayna dann wa-dannān. Dann is literally an earthen wine-jar with a tapered bottom. See Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 3, p.918, s.v. dann. Both the imagery and the Arabic root D-N-N suggest the soul’s intermediate station between God the Craftsman and His product here below, al-dunyā.

105. Arabic: maghânī. See Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 6, p.2304, s.v. maghnan. The sense here is of a place whose inhabitants were satisfied but then departed from or were removed from it.

106. See Q.39:67: “… the whole earth is His handful on the Day of Resurrection …”

107. Arabic: mā īt shirbihā. Shirb is “a share, or portion that falls to one’s lot of water.” Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 4, p. 1527, s.v. shirb.

108. Arabic: arjā’. See Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 3, p. 1050, s.v. rajan. See also Q.69:17: “The angels will stand at its borders (arjā’ihā) and eight will uphold the Throne of their Lord that day, above them.”

109. There is a near homophony between ṣūra (rank) and ṣūra (form). This is particularly fitting, as it is the divine form that gives the Intellect its high rank.

110. A play on words between sarīr (throne) and sarīra (secret).

111. A reference to the Footstool at which level polarities enter creation.

112. Arabic: al-siwā. What is other than the Real, that is, creation.

113. Note the near tajnīs between finā (courtyard) and fanā' (annihilation).

114. Arabic: al-makāsib (what is earned) and al-mawāhil (what is bestowed). For this distinction and its relation to prophecy, see, for example, Fut. II, beginning of Chap. 73.

115. Arabic: al-munāzil. Translation unsure. I follow Gril’s translation (Arbre, p. 64). The form is masculine, but from the narrative of the Ringdove, we may assume she is the one who has been overlooked.

116. Arabic: iftarā. In the Qur’an, this word is used for the attribution of an associate with God. See Q.4:51: “And whoso attributeth a copartner to God hath devised an enormous sin.”

117. Again, a reference to earning and divine bestowal. The Shaykh is suggesting here that the philosophers will never discover the truth about the First Intellect; such knowledge belongs only to the Messengers, Prophets, and Friends of God.

118. Note the play on words between qidam (eternity) and qadam (anteriority), which have the same orthography.

119. In other words, the philosophers mistook the First Intellect for the Real.

120. Arabic: kāfir. Gril’s translation (Arbre, p. 65), “I disavow the worship that they offer me”, though less literal, conveys the sense of the phrase very well.

121. Ibn ‘Arab! plays nicely on the rhyming sounds of these two opposing verbs: ya’izz (to be powerful) and ya’ jiz (to be weak).

122. Arabic: tu’rihu (to speak clearly) and tughrihu (to say strange things). This paronomasia is particularly elegant in that the letters ’ayn and ghayn are distinguished only by the dot above the latter.

123. Arabic: ḥadd. Could also mean “definition”.

124. Arabic: maghrib. Note the use of words based on the root GH-R-B: meaning strangeness, west, exile.

125. Arabic: al-baḥr al-muḥīt. This is also the name for the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. For an esoteric meaning of this “surrounding sea”, see Fut. II. 40, where it is equated with knowledge of union and separation.

126. As Gril says (Arbre, p. 67, n. 92): “Limits are what defines a being; they are of three kinds: essential, descriptive, and linguistic.” See Fut. II 63.

127. See Q. 85:13 : “It is He who produceth, then reproduceth.”

128. Arabic: majlis al-mutriqīn, from the fourth form of the root Ṭ-R-Q. This root is also associated with the word tarīqa, meaning “the Sufi Path”.

129. See Fut. II 647.

130. See Q.24:35: “The similitude of His light is as a niche wherein is a lamp.”

131. According to a prophetic report, this was one of the forms in which the revelation came to the Prophet.

132. See Q.24:40: “Or as a darkness on avast, abysmal sea. There coverethhim a wave, above which is a cloud. Layer upon layer of darkness.”

133. Arabic: ilayya al-munahhī. Munahhī can also mean “one who forbids or warns”. I follow Gril’s translation here, as it seems to make more sense. The Arabic root N-H-W/Y has the meanings: to forbid, restrain, reach (a limit).

134. See Q.20:54 and 20:128: “Herein verily are signs for men of thought.”

135. Arabic: luhā. The root of this word generally has to do with entertainment of a light sort; however, one of the manuscripts consulted by Gril glosses it as “gift”.

136. Although matter is the limit of manifestation, the individuals that come to be in embodied form are endless.

137. See Q. 39:67: “… when the whole earth is His handful on the Day of Resurrection, and the heavens are rolled in His right hand.”

138. See Gril, Arbre, p. 44, nn.29 and 30 for the connection between the equatorial line, the place of the Throne’s establishment, and the “dark bodies” that are the most secure places to hide the divine lights.

139. Arabic: al-lāḥiq. It is interesting to note that both this word and its pair here, al-sābiq (see below), were used by the Ismâ’īlīs to designate levels in their hierarchical structure, be it human - as is the case with lāhiq, which signifies the Hidden Imam’s deputy during his occultation - or cosmic, as is the case with sābiq, described below.

140. Arabic: al-sābiq. The Ismâ’īlīs, drawing on Neoplatonic emanationist doctrines, associated this word with the First Intellect. See Corbin, Cyclical Time, pp. 87-9. While there is ample proof in Ibn Arabī’s writings to refute any Shi ‘ite proclivities on his part, the linking of these two terms does suggest that there is a stronger connection between Intellect and Body than is immediately perceptible. For a refutation of Ibn Arabī’s supposed Shi’ism, see al-Ghorab, “Muhyiddīn Ibn al-Arabi Amidst Religions and Schools of Thought”, pp.202-6.

141. Literally: “in my depth”.

142. Q.23:108.

143. Literally: “in my breadth”.

144. Q.30:15; 43:70.

145. See Q.2:60; 7:160. See Commentary, p.72, for this line’s connection to the dedicatee of the treatise.

146. See Q.28:10: “And the heart of the mother of Moses became void, and she would have betrayed him if We had not fortified her heart, that she might be of the believers.”

147. Arabic: al-khalī. See Commentary, p. 101, for a discussion of this term.

148. Arabic: ḥadd al-sinān. A pun on the name of the dedicatee, found in the following line. The Arabic root H-D-D conveys a number of senses, including: sharpness, definition, limit, impediment, and legal punishment.

149. It is possible that Ibn Arab! is also alluding to a tradition of the Prophet: “No verse of the Qur’an has come down without it having an exoteric (ẓâhir) interpretation, an esoteric (bāṭin) interpretation, a limit (ḥadd) and a place of ascension (muṭṭala’).” If limit - the barzakh between the exoteric and esoteric interpretation -belongs to Sinān, the place of ascent where one solves the riddle, belongs to Sakhr, the rock from which one gains a perspective of the totality. I thank Stephen Hirtenstein for his suggestive comments on this puzzling verse. See also Chap. 25 of the Futüḥāt.

150. This line can also be found in ’Uqlat al-mustawfiz, p.56, where it begins the chapter on the Throne of the All-Merciful, which brings together the “four existing things": Nature, Dust, [Universal] Body, and Sphere.





COMMENTARY



The Title


The full title of the treatise is long and complex: Cosmic Unification in the Presence of the Eye–witnessing through the Assembly of the Human Tree and the Four Spiritual Birds (al–Ittiḥād al–kawnī fî ḥaḍrat al–ish–hād al-‘aynī bi–maḥḍūr al–shajara al–insāniyya wa–l-ṭuyūr al–arba’a al–ruhāniyya). As is generally the case with Ibn ‘Arabī’s titles, each word is carefully chosen for its semantic as well as symbolic resonance. While we will discuss the “human tree” and the “four spiritual birds” later, let us briefly look at the other key terms in the title.





Ittiḥād


Ittiḥād is the verbal noun deriving from the eighth form of the consonantal root W–Ḥ-D, which conveys the basic meaning of “one, unity, uniqueness”. The eighth form of the verb primarily gives the sense of reflexivity and reciprocity. Thus the first–form verb wahada, meaning “to be one, unique”, becomes in the eighth form ittahada, meaning “to unite”, to make oneself and/or others one. As Ibn ‘Arabī defines it, “Ittiḥād is that two essences become one, whether servant or Lord”,1 thus the term suggests a mystical union in which one essence is subsumed or annihilated in the other. But, as Souad al–Hakīm has written, “the Ittiḥād in which two essences become one is impossible according to Ibn ‘Arabī”.2 As the Shaykh tells us, “There can be no Ittiḥād other than with respect to number and nature.”3 The doctrine of Ittiḥād is censured by both the exoteric scholars, such as the theologians and philosophers, and by the mystics, albeit in a qualified sense. Not only can there be no intermingling of essences, either as an apotheosis of the human being or as an incarnation (ḥulūl) of the divine in human form, but the entire notion of Ittiḥād rests on the false assumption that there is anything at all other than the One Essence.4 Ittiḥād thus, from one point of view, is a meaningless concept.

This, however, is not the full story, for there are situations in which, Ibn ‘Arabī claims, the declaration of Ittiḥād is not only permissible but necessary for the mystic to profess. In the highly allusive Chapter 399 of the Futūḥāt, Ibn ‘Arabī discusses Ittiḥād at length. The paradoxes of this notion are evident in the chapter’s title : On Knowledge of the Mutual Waystation of “He who enters it, I smote his neck [that is, behead him], and no one remains who does not enter it.” It is inevitable, in other words, that the creature will profess Ittiḥād, whether he realizes the true situation or is completely unaware. Everyone and everything attributes his own action to himself, everything says “I”. God Himself ascribes action to His creatures, as Ibn ‘Arabī points out in a series of quotations from the Qur’an. Hence, although the gnostic knows that God is the only agent, there are times when his spiritual state or even a command from God allows him to attribute God’s action to himself, as in the case of spiritual annihilation (fanā’) where God, as a result of the servant’s drawing near to Him through the supererogatory acts of worship (nawāfil), “becomes”, in the ḥadlth qudsī,5 the servant’s hearing, seeing, speaking, and all his faculties.6 When the servant enters the station of Ittiḥād, God “smote [s] his neck”; that is, He severs the connection between the absolute and the relative with respect to the servant’s perception of his ontological condition, and only Oneness (aḥadiyya) remains, a Oneness that belongs to the Real alone, never to the servant.7 This, of course, is the reason for the “blasphemous” and unruly utterances of such well–known Sufis as al–Ḥallāj, who said: “I am the Real”, and Abū Yazīd al–Bisṭāmī, who said: “Glory be to me.”

Another instance of the permissibility of declaring Ittiḥād is discussed briefly by Ibn ‘Arabī in the Futūḥāt’s Chapter on Love,8 with reference to the hadlth qudsī mentioned above, as well as the Qur’anic dictum to the Prophet: “You did not throw when you threw but God threw” (Q. 8:17). Further on in the chapter,9 he describes the goal of spiritual love as Ittiḥād, in which the essence of the Beloved becomes the essence of the lover, a statement that would seem to contradict his statements elsewhere. He relates this to the infamous heresy of incarnation (ḥulūl), but says that those who proclaim it are unaware of the real meaning of this unification.

The sense of unification between the lover and the Beloved is later explained in terms of natural love, in which two lovers exchange breath, that is, spirits, and saliva in intimate embrace. “When this breath becomes the spirit in the one toward which it is transferred and the breath of the other becomes the spirit of the first, it is interpreted as unification (Ittiḥād) … So it is correct to say [as the poet al–Ḥallāj has said] :

I am the One I love, and the One I love is me!”10



A final example, taken from this same chapter on love, shows the bewilderment of the lover who does not understand the situation as it really is. Taken from an enumeration of various essential characteristics of the lover, the passage in question has to do with the lover whose essential characteristic is that he is “annoyed (mutabarrim) by the company of what comes between him and meeting his Beloved.”11 As Ibn ‘Arabī explains, nothing comes between the gnostic and meeting God but non–existence, which is nothing. Existence is nothing other than God. God Himself is the Contemplator in every eye that sees Him. The only veil between lover and Beloved is creation, and the lover is unable to remove creation for it is his very essence. As Ibn ‘Arabī explains, “A thing cannot remove itself from itself, and his self is what comes between him and meeting his Beloved … so he remains ever annoyed.”12 He imagines that when he is separated from his body, he will be separated from composition and he will become something simple in which there is no duality. He multiplies his own oneness (aḥadiyya) with the Oneness of the Real, and this constitutes the meeting. But multiplication results only in him, not in Him. And this makes the lover even more annoyed. On the other hand, the lover who is a knower of God does not become annoyed because “he knows the affair as it really is, as we have mentioned in the Treatise on Unification (Risālat al–Ittiḥād).”13

And how is the affair as it really is? In one sense, one can explain it only by paradox: there is / is not unification, depending on one’s particular understanding of the word. Ibn ‘Arabī himself explains it in terms of the Prophet’s supererogatory supplication that God make him into a light since God has said: “God is the light of the heavens and the earth” (Q. 24:35). The Shaykh explains: “The glories [of God’s Face] are lights, and light is not burned away by light. Rather, it is included within it, that is, it coheres with it because it is of the same genus. This is conjunction and unification (Ittiḥād).”14 The Muḥammadan light is thus consubstantial with the Divine Light. The servant, who, in himself, has only possible existence, is by his very nature something added (nafl), “light upon light” (Q. 24:34) as it were: “You are fundamentally extra with respect to existence, since God was when you were not, and then you were.”15

Thus Ittiḥād can only occur when the servant realizes his superfluous or supererogatory nature vis-à-vis the Real. By engaging in the supererogatory, an act that engages his will and creativity, he assumes the attributes of the Real, whereby the Real becomes his hearing, seeing, and all his faculties. It is only in this way that the Real becomes manifest in the form of the servant and the servant becomes manifest in the form of the Real. Then there is an interpénétration of attributes rather than the disappearance of one essence into another.16

It is, as Ibn ‘Arabī remarks in his chapter on Abraham in the Fuṣūṣ al–hikam, like the dying of a garment, where colour penetrates the cloth.17 This interpénétration of attributes is known as khulla, or intimate friendship, from which the designation of Abraham as al–Khalīl derives. As the Shaykh explains, “Khulla can only be between God and His servant. Itis the station of unification (Ittīḥād).”18 It is a reciprocal intimacy, then, in which the loving servant plays both an active and a passive part, following the two–part structure of the aforementioned hadlth qudsī.19 In the first stage: “My servant does not approach me by something I love more than by those acts which I have prescribed.” In this first movement, one involving the performance of obligatory acts, Abraham “penetrates and encompasses”20 the Divine Attributes. This is followed by a second stage in which: “He does not cease approaching Me with supererogatory acts until I love him.” This love consists of the “penetration” by the Divine Spirit, which courses through every organ and limb of the servant’s body: “And when I love him, I am his ear with which he hears, his eye with which he sees, his hand with which he grasps.”21 Ittiḥād, then, is the state in which God is “nearer” to His servant “than the jugular vein” (Q. 50:16), but neither Lord nor vassal disappears. As Ibn Arabī concludes, in the chapter on Abraham in the Fuṣūṣ:

We are His as has been shown,

As also we belong to ourselves.

… I have two aspects, He and I,

But He is not I in my I.

In me is His place of manifestation,

And we are for Him as vessels.22





Kawnī


Kawnī is an adjective derived from the verbal noun kawn, cosmos, creation. It can also refer to the individual creature. The consonantal root is K–W-N, whose meanings include “to be”, “to create”, “to bring into existence”. God’s command “Be!” (kun)23 is the occasion for all existence. Ibn ‘Arabī finds an esoteric meaning within the structure of this command. Although it is written with only two letters, the kāf and the nūn, the wāw lies hidden within, appearing only as the short–vowel ḍamma, pronounced “u”. The seeming polarity of the Real and creation is bridged by a third thing, the linking letter wāw, which represents the Perfect Human Being.24 This Perfect Human Being thus serves as an isthmus, or barzakh, partaking of both sides of creation as a whole, the divine and the cosmic,25 yet preserving the tension inherent in them.26





Ishhād


Ishhād is the fourth–form verbal noun of the verb ashhada. Its root SH–H-D has to do with seeing, witnessing. One of the senses of fourth–form verbs is causative, hence in this case “to make see or witness”. For Ibn ‘Arabī, seeing possesses an inner as well as outward sense. The Essence or Being of the Real can never be grasped but His manifestation in the cosmos can be witnessed in its infinite self–disclosures.27 In the state of annihilation of self (fanā’) and the subsistence of God (baqā’), the gnostic realizes that it is God who is both Witness and witnesser.





‘Aynī


‘Aynī is an adjective related to the consonantal root ‘-Y–N. ’Ayn is the paradigmatic homonym, with a wide range of meanings as diverse as “eye”, “spring”, “source”, “essence”, “entity”, and “self”. Ibn Arabi fully exploits the range of possibilities of this word’s meaning in his title and throughout the treatise. What the author is being made to witness with the eye of his inner vision is the Root of his existence and his very self. The title could easily be read: Cosmic Unification in the Presence of the I‘witnessing.

• • •

There is an unmistakable affinity between the paired terms al–Ittiḥād al–kawnī and al–ishhād al-’Aynī.28 While the first term may suggest to some the notion that has mistakenly been ascribed to Ibn Arabī through the centuries, waḥdat al–wujūd, oneness or unity of being, the form of the word Ittiḥād is much more in line with Ibn Arabī’s manner of thinking. The fact that the word is in a form that implies reflexivity and reciprocity provides a dynamism that we do not find in the more static word waḥda. Since we know from the Shaykh’s own words that two incommensurable essences — the Real and the servant → cannot enter into a true unity, and that in reality there is only one absolute unqualified Being, the effort is directed to the realization of what it means to be the locus where absolute and relative being meet.





The Proemial Poems


The Ittiḥād al–kawnī begins abruptly with a series of proemial poems — a Stemning, in Kierkegaardian terms → that sets the tone for the first part of the risāla. The series consists of three poems of differing lengths and metres, interspersed by prose remarks, including the dedication and naming of the treatise. In reality, the three poems form a single poem, regularly repeating the refrain: “From my … to my …” They are all marked by end rhymes to which the letter yā’ (transliterated “F “) or the shortened variant “i” is appended. The first poem’s end rhyme is in lām plus the additional “ī” -ālī (for example, i’tidālī//jalālī); the second’s is ḍād plus “ī” -arḍī: (farḍī // ’ardī); the third’s is sin, hence -sî: (hissī// laḍsī). The result is fifty lines of verse, all ending with the long “ee” sound. In Arabic, the long consonantal “yā’”, which gives the sound of a long “ee”, is the marker of the first person possessive pronoun suffix. Thus the author truly does not cease to speak about himself throughout the entire initial sequence and beyond. Imagine the effect if we were to read an English poem of equivalent length, all ending in the word “me”.

The first poem, in the metre basīṭ, is nineteen lines in length, thirteen of which present paired terms in each hemistich for a total of twenty–six paired terms. Nine lines consist of dyads that are not repeated: incompleteness / completeness; inclination / equilibrium. Represented by letters, the pattern would be: A → B → C → D. This pattern is repeated for nine lines, after which come four lines in which the second of the dyads is repeated, while the fourth is new: breeze, boughs / boughs, shade. The pattern here is A → B = B → C. Following the thirteen lines of paired terms are six lines with no paired terms.

The first thirteen lines are full of dyadic fluctuations, oppositions, ascents, and descents, in dizzying succession. Some of the terms are states, some things. Generally, the movement is along a variety of horizontal axes, but at the mention of the moon, a cyclical variant of this fluctuation is brought into consideration. This is made even more apparent as the author begins to repeat the last term of the line as the first term of the next line: breeze to boughs, boughs to shade, and so forth.

The reader is caught in the sheer instability of human → nay all -nature, and the words of the Prophetic tradition may come to mind: “The heart is between two of the fingers of the All–Merciful; He makes it fluctuate as He desires.”29

The second poem consists of only two lines in the rare metre muḍāri’. The pairs here: heaven, earth; exemplary practice, religious duty // pact, perjury; length, breadth, are contraries. There are no repeated terms among the eight, hence we return to the first pattern of the first sequence: A → B → C → D.

The third poem consists of twenty–nine lines in the metre hazaj. The first pair of each hemistich, with one exception, is presented in reverse order in the second: sense, intellect / intellect, sense. Thus the pattern here is A→ B = B ↑ A. A line of explanation or elaboration follows each of these pair–embedded lines. As we have mentioned, all but one of the pairs in the first hemistich are repeated in reverse order in the second. The exception is the eleventh line: body, vastness; vastness / prison.30 This gives a total of eleven pairs made up of five individual terms plus the extra “prison”. A final contrasting pair, shout / whisper, is given in the last line.

We have mentioned the pattern of the three proemial poems for a reason. The movement of the first sequence is along a horizontal line: ABCD→. The second can be seen as a Z:



The two–lined third sequence returns to ABCD→ and the fourth forms a perfectly self–contained X:



We also note that the terms in each line have been reduced in sequences one, two, and four from four terms to three and then to two. The wild ricocheting has settled down to an even swing as equilibrium approaches. The poet seems to have progressed from the sensation of being caught in the dualities at every level of existence to a realization of the Unity at the core.





The Dedicatee


As we have already noted, Ibn ‘Arabī states often in the treatise that he addresses only himself. What, then, is his relation to the dedicatee of the work? The Ittiḥād al–kawnī is dedicated to a mysterious personage who, as Ibn ‘Arabī says, “understands my riddle”. In the Ittiḥād he is called by the name Abū al–Fawāris ṣakhr ibn ṣinān, but as Gril has pointed out,31 there is no doubt that he is the semi–legendary prophet Khālid ibn Sinān b. ‘Ayth (or al–Ghayth)32 al-‘Absī,33 to whom Ibn ‘Arabī devotes his penultimate chapter in the Fuṣūṣ al–ḥikam. In the Ittiḥād, however, he is not called Khālid but Ṣakhr. Nonetheless, the two men are one and the same, as will become clear later when we deconstruct these names.

The dedicatee’s role in the narrative seems minor at best, appearing only once in the Jet–Black Crow’s poem at the end, but this insignificance is only apparent. In reality, he holds a major key to the work, as a possible alter ego of the author himself and as a symbol for the Perfect Human Being as a barzakh, or isthmus, whose nature will be discussed below. Some delving into Khālid’s history and the various components of his name yields important clues.

Khālid, whom some, including Ibn ‘Arabī, regard as a pre–Islamic Arabian prophet,34 is said to have lived at the time of what is known as the fatra35 - the intermediate period between specific legislative revelations, in this case between Jesus and Muḥammad.36 He is considered to be a ḥaniīf, a natural monotheist or Muslim avant le lettre, in part because of a Prophetic tradition that links him with the message of tawḥīd - the declaration of God’s Oneness. According to this tradition, when the Prophet recited the Sura of Sincerity, Surat al–Ikhlāṣ: “Say: He, Allah, is One, Allah the Eternal Refuge (al–Ṣamad)’\ Khālid’s daughter informed him that she had heard her father recite the very same verse.

Khālid is not mentioned by name in the Qur’an,37 and his status as a prophet is sometimes cast into doubt by the Prophet’s having said, “I am the nearest of men to Jesus son of Mary, for there is no prophet between him and me.” But as ṣadr al–Dīn Qūnawī says in the Fukūk, this was due to the fact that Khālid “did not manifest prophecy on the sensory plane”.38

Why Khālid failed to manifest his prophecy in this world is associated with a strange story, several versions of which are recounted by the Shaykh and his followers. We will mention first the more extensive account given in Jāmī’s commentary on Ibn ‘Arabī’s own chapter headings of the Fuṣūṣ.39 The story goes as follows. Khālid lived with his people in Aden.40 One day, a great fire (traditionally called “nār al–ḥarratayn”),41 accompanied by billows of smoke and a deafening noise, came out of a cave and wreaked havoc upon the people, their farms, and their livestock, causing them to flee to Khālid for refuge. Khālid approached the fire and beat it with his staff until it retreated back into the cave. He told his sons that he was going to follow the fire into the cave and extinguish it completely. He then instructed them to call him after three days, and warned them that if they called him before that, he would come out but that they — presumably the sons as well as their father — would die. The sons waited two days before their patience wore out — or as Jamī says, Satan made them restless — and they began to suspect that their father had died. So they called him before the appointed time. Khālid emerged from the cave, his head wounded by their call. He told them, “You have caused me to perish, and you have let my words and instructions perish.”

He then told them that he was going to die and ordered them to bury him and watch over his grave for forty days. At that time a flock of sheep would come to them, led by a bob–tailed donkey. When the donkey stopped in front of his grave, they were to disinter him. He would then tell them about the states of the barzakh, the isthmus between life and death.

The people waited forty days, as instructed, and the flock, led by the bob–tailed donkey, came by, just as Khālid predicted. When it stopped in front of his grave, the believers among his people wanted to open the grave and hear Khālid’s message. His sons, however, once more thwarted their father’s plans, fearing the disgrace of being called “the sons of him whose grave was opened”. “So it was the pagan ignorance of the Arabs that caused his instructions to perish and let him perish.”42

The sign that confirmed his prophecy — his revelation concerning the barzakh - was to become manifest after death but, as Ibn ‘Arabī says, “He let his sign perish, since he did not manifest it during his lifetime, and he let his people perish also, for he did not show it to them, so they let him perish.”43 This is alluded to in another tradition linking Khālid to the Prophet, in which the latter is reported to have said to one of Khālid’s daughters: “Welcome to the daughter of a prophet whose people let him perish!”44 Ibn ‘Arabī, however, points out that the blame was to be assigned only to Khālid’s sons.

A second version, recounted by Ibn ‘Arabī in his Muḥāḍarāt al–abrār wa–musāmarāt al–ahyār, a work of belles–lettres, stays close to the hadith reports. It traces the report to Ibn ‘Abbās, and places the story in the steppe lands between Mecca and Medina during the fatra. The fire that appeared was called “Budā” by the Bedouin and some of them were on the point of worshipping it like the Magians. Khālid, presumably because of his monotheism, sought to stamp out the root of this heresy. He confronted the fire with his staff, beating it until God put it out.45 The exertion seems to have mortally wounded Khālid. The remainder of the story is as above, complete with burial instructions and donkey (full–tailed here). Khālid promises to tell the people how things are in the world of the dead. The rest of the story passes as already recounted, the sons once more being assigned the blame for the failure to exhume their father. A coda links the story to two sayings of the Prophet, one of which we have encountered above, that is, the Prophet’s greeting to Khālid’s daughter, the other of which reflects the aborted message: “Then [the Messenger of God] said, ’Had they disinterred him, he would have told them about me and my community and what would come to be from them.’”46

We should also mention al–Qāshāni’s version that provides the intriguing detail that from the fire that terrified Khālid’s people emerged an ’anuq - a male ’anqā’- whose body partly resembled a camel and partly a snake.47 It was this serpent–like creature that Khālid beat back into the cave with his staff, his tribe following timorously behind.

The Fuṣūṣ, however, reflects yet another version,48 in which Khālid tells his people that he will reveal the secrets of the barzakh only after his death and disinterment; he claims that the barzakh is in the form of this world,49 thus confirming what the messengers had revealed. As the Ottoman commentator remarks in his commentary on the Fusus, “It was not that Khālid was manifested with the prophecy of barzakhiyya, but that he would first die and would witness the states of the barzakh and then, after becoming alive again by divine order, he would be manifested with the prophecy of barzakhiyya.”50 Hence Khālid’s failure to manifest his prophecy is the reason for the Prophet’s statement: “I am the nearest of men to Jesus son of Mary, for there is no prophet between him and me.” According to this commentator, then, Khālid did not become manifest with the prophecy of the barzakh, since his pronouncements upon its joys and sorrows were not confirmed by his resurrection: “Because for the general public, if a prophet dies and comes back, the effect of the news he gives of the other world is more definite than the information of the other world given by a prophet who is not dead but who is alive in this world.”51

In the Fuṣūṣ version, Khālid is also attributed with foretelling Muḥammad’s mission. Khālid’s desire, according to Ibn ‘Arabī, was that all mankind believe in the message of the prophets and particularly in Muḥammad’s mission as a mercy to the universes, which he apparently foresaw. His people, however, did not allow him to fulfil his purpose. Thus this version differs in that the message concerning the barzakh is delivered, but not confirmed, and the role of harbinger of universal mercy is denied him.

The prophecy of Khālid is in many ways the exact opposite of Muḥammad’s. While Muḥammad’s was fully visible, Khālid’s was hidden. While Muḥammad’s mission was successful, Khālid’s was a failure. While Muḥammad ascends to the heavens during his mi‘rāj, Khālid is best known for his descents underground — practising a sort of katabasis in a cave, pursuing knowledge in the tomb. Like a seed deposited in the ground, or an embryo in the dark womb, Khālid awaits the time when his people will disinter him, enabling him to proclaim his message, confirming the words of the messengers before him. But Khālid himself could not achieve his wish. His message remains in sheer potentiality with respect to this world.

At this point, a certain constellation of notions discussed at great length in the Futūhāt comes to mind. These include the opposing states of seclusion (khalwa) and society (Jalwa), the various stages of annihilation (fanā’) and perdurance (baqā’),52 and the spiritual voyage that ends either in arrival (wuṣūl)53 and halting (waqfa) or arrival and return (rujū’). Considered in relation to these discussions, Khālid’s prophecy was imperfect for it was entirely concerned with khalwa and waqfa. He was not granted the possibility of manifesting his prophecy in public and was not able to return to his people. Muḥammad’s prophecy, on the other hand, was perfect for it embraced these opposites. The initial stage of his spiritual initiation, before the coming of the angel Gabriel, took place in the cave of Hirā. Thus it was a period of seclusion and flight from the world. In the wake of the descent of revelation upon him, however, his apostolic mission demanded that he manifest within the world. And his heavenly mi’rāj did not culminate in any permanent absorption in the divine but was followed by a return to his community. As the Shaykh says in his Futūḥāt, “The perfection of the heritage of the prophets and the messengers consists in the return to the creatures.”54 And Khālid is a clear example of a prophet who arrived and halted, unable to make the return to the world.





Secrets of the Name Abū al–Fawāris Ṣakhr [= Khālid] ibn Sinān55


The first kunya, or agnomen — Abū al–Fawāris — means “father of the knights”. The fawāris were “a class of Arab chivalrous heroes distinguished by eloquence (bayān) as well as courage and generosity (jūd)”.56 The appellation suggests pre–Islamic values and may have a connection with the fatā, or chivalrous knight, of the Futūḥāt’s first chapter. Ibn ‘Arabī makes reference to these values in his dedication and again at the end of the Risāla when he praises Sakhr ibn Sinān for his generosity and steadfastness in combat.57

Gril points out that the word jūd (generosity) calls to mind the word wujūd (existence) and vice versa; as an Arabic proverb states, “Al–wujūd fī al–jūd” (Existence is — or consists — in generosity). Bayān (eloquence) brings to mind the Qur’an, since this is one of its appellations. Hence not only are generosity and eloquence evoked in this passage but existence and revelation as well.58

The root F–R-S is also connected with the quasi–occult science of firāsa, or physiognomy. A fāris discerns the unseen nature of things, and especially human beings, from visible signs. To b efāris of something, says Ibn Manzūr in Lisān al-’Arab, is to know it.

The dedicatee’s second kunya - Ibn Sinān — means “son of a spearhead”. This again suggests the notion of pre–Islamic warrior values.

• • •

The name Khālid has two main meanings, one concerned with rocks (ṣakhr/ḥajar) and the other with everlastingness (ṣamādiyya). But let us begin with the name Khālid itself and the Arabic root KH–L-D from which it is derived.





Khālid–eternal = ṣamad = rock = ṣakhr

“Khālid” is an active participle, deriving from the verb khalada: to remain or last forever; to be immortal; to remain in a place. In the fourth form, akhlada, it has many of the same meanings as form one, but it also means: to incline, lean, tend to. In this form it appears in the Qur’an: “And had We willed We could have raised him by their means, but he inclined toward [or clung to] the earth (akhlada) and followed his own whim” (Q. 7:176). Khālida (pl. khawālid) are rocks or mountains,59 “the immovable ones, … the earth–riveted, unchanging, … clasping the ground”.60 Addressed by the poet Labīd, they are “the mute immovable ones whose speech yields no sense” (ḍumman khawālida mā yabīnu kalāmuhā).61

The verbal noun khuld conveys the sense of infinite duration and eternity. Dār al–khuld is an epithet for the hereafter. Jaroslav Stetkevych has discussed the “binary semantic tension that inheres in the word khuld itself”.62 In the Qur’an, this noun appears both in a positive (Q.21:15) and negative (Q. 10:52; 32:14; 41:28) sense; and verbs and participles based on this root reflect the same ambivalence: “Where did khuld begin — in ’heaven’ or in ’hell’, or rather: in the higher regions of the awareness of self or in the lower ones? Is it an origin or an aspiration? … Is it the future or the past?”63 Khuld is also a word for mole, a blind burrowing creature who lives underground. Thus both the prophet Khālid and the animal khuld are associated with the chthonic realm. Stetkevych remarks that even the celestial associations of this root in the Qur’an, wherein the term khuld/khālid is frequently coupled with the term jannah, garden/paradise,64 cannot be divorced from the chthonic: “.. .jannah … may itself only be ‘projected’ into the eschatological ‘heavenly’ sphere out of its primary chthonic ‘hiddenness,’ ‘buriedness,’ ‘darkness,’ and also ‘protectedness.’”65 For the semantic range of the root J–N-N includes such words as “to veil”, “to conceal”, “fetus” (Janln), “jinn”, and “grave” (Janan). Ibn ‘Arabī’s appellation of Khālid as “Jānn ibn Jānn” (Jānn, son of the Jinn) in his dedication is thus entirely appropriate.66





ṣakhr–rock = ḥajar = Khālid =jabal

The word “ṣakhr” appears three times in the Qur’an: (1) “Didst thou see, when we took refuge in the rock” (Q. 18:63). The context is the voyage undertaken by Moses and Khiḍr; (2) “though it be in a rock, or in the heavens, or in the earth … God will bring it forth” (Q. 31:16). The context is Luqmān’s advice to his son; and (3) “and Thamūd, who hollowed the rocks in the valley” (Q. 89:9). Thus rocks may be refuges, hiding places, and ruins of a pre–Islamic people who disobeyed their prophet Ḥūd.

The other word for rock is ḥajar. This is the word used in the Qur’an in connection with Moses: “Strike with thy staff the rock” (Q. 2:60; 7:160), and “for there are stones from which rivers come gushing” (Q. 2:74). Ibn ‘Arabī seems to be referring to this image in the final poem of the Ittiḥād, “I am a rock (ṣakhr), and from me the spiritual meanings flash.”

The Moses/rock analogy is evident in another early work of Ibn ‘Arabī’s, Mashāhid al–asrār One of the contemplations involves the “light of the Rock (ṣakhra)” at the end of which the Real addresses the Moon: “Tell the rock to let twelve springs pour forth …”67 According to Ibn Sawdakin, who commented on this work, the rock is a symbol of the body and its knowledges, the Moon represents the knowledge of Nature, the twelve springs are the constellations.68





Ṣamad

“ṣamad” is a curious word that appears only once in the Qur’an, in Sura 112. It is variously translated in that context as “eternal refuge”, “everlasting”, and “resource”. As such it is an epithet for God.

The legends of Khālid emphasize Khālid’s role as the support and refuge of his people. It is to him that they turn in times of danger or need, as in the case of the fire that came out of the cave. We have also seen that in the traditions, Khālid is specifically associated with Sura 112, which calls God “Aḥad” and “ṣamad”. Thus, the two elements of dependable recourse and strict monotheism are brought together as Khālid’s distinguishing features.

In the Fuṣūṣ, these suppositions are tacitly understood, for the particular wisdom associated with Khālid ibn Sinān is ṣamadiyya.69 The chapter on Khālid does not specifically mention what the precise connection is between Khālid and ṣamadiyya, although ṣadr al–Dīn Qunawī in his Fukūk interprets ṣamad as “aim”.70 In the Fuṣūṣ, this is one of the two main foci of the chapter — the other being the barzakh - since Khālid is associated with the notions of intention and fulfilment. Khālid’s mission, as we have noted, was a failure. Yet Ibn ‘Arabī concludes in the Fuṣūṣ that God “allow[ed] him to achieve the reward (ajr) of his wish (umniyya)”. But he adds: “There is doubt and dispute as to whether he attained the reward (ajr) of his quest (matlūb).”71 In other words, is wishing to perform an action equivalent to accomplishing the act itself, and does desire merit a reward even if it fails to be carried to fruition?72 “In the outward sense”, says Ibn ‘Arabī, “they are not equal. Therefore, Khālid b. Sinān sought to attain both so he could have the station of bringing together both things and thus gain two rewards.”73 His success, however, is inconclusive.74

Another word belonging to this root is “ṣamda”, which is “a rock firmly imbedded in the earth, even with the surface thereof” or “somewhat elevated”.75 Thus we find again associations connecting ṣakhr / Khālid ibn Sinān with enduring rocks and subterranean existence.

“ṣamad” also means “solid, not hollow”76 and is applied to someone who takes no nourishment yet neither hungers nor thirsts in war.77 Thus it is connected in particular with fasting. Ibn ‘Arabī, for example, calls Ramadan “ṣamadiyya”.78 One finds this same connection in the Shaykh’s small treatise ḥilyat al–abdāl: “The station is that of universal sustenance. It is a very elevated condition characterized by intellectual secrets, contemplative unveilings, and spiritual states.”79

Finally, the Presence of ṣamad is discussed in the Futūḥāt, Chapter 287. The particular self–disclosure of this Presence has to do with the descent of the Qur’an on the Night of Power, which occurs during the fasting month of Ramadan.80





Khālid ibn ṣinān, Prophet of the Barzakh


When we bring together all the etymological clues with the legendary account of Khālid’s mission, we find that this final Arabian prophet before the advent of Muḥammad is admirably suited to be called “Prophet of the barzakh”. We have already encountered one meaning of barzakh in connection with the content of Khālid’s message. It is “the interval between the present life and that which is to come, from the period of death to the resurrection”.81 But in its broadest definition a barzakh is anything that separates two things, anything that is neither one thing nor another: it is the dream world that partakes of both life and death, the image in the mirror that both is and is not the observer; it is the unperceivable instant between past and future; the dawn and dusk when it is neither fully light nor dark; and the moon as it waxes and wanes in its cycle, forever in transit from crescent to void.82 As Chittick has noted,

A barzakh is something that stands between and separates two other things, yet combines the attributes of both. Strictly speaking, every existent thing is a barzakh, since everything has its own niche between two other niches within the ontological hierarchy known as the cosmos.83



Chittick goes on to say: “Existence itself is a barzakh between Being and nothingness.”84 Between the One, unchanging Being and the equally unchanging nothingness ('adam) lies the barzakh of the ever–fluctuating existent things.

Two contradictories never stand opposite each other without a separator through which each is distinguished from the other and which prevents the one from being described by the attribute of the other. … This is the Supreme Barzakh, or the Barzakh of Barzakhs. It possesses a face toward Being and a face toward nothingness. It stands opposite each of these two known things in its very essence. It is the third known thing. Within it are all possible things. It is infinite, just as each of the other two known things is infinite.85



When we take this passage into consideration, the initially puzzling reference to ṣakhr’s being “master of the dyads and triads” becomes a bit clearer.86 The Perfect Human Being, as we have stated above, brings together opposites and provides the resolving bridge between them. Thus he is able to reflect in response to the moment all the divine attributes on either side of the cosmic divide — mercy and severity, beauty and majesty, transcendence and immanence — while simultaneously preserving the oddness and singularity inherent in the whole, representing, as he does, the human axis of unity. While in himself he is non–existent, as a locus for the infinite manifestations of the divine in every instant, he is God’s representative (khalīfa) in the world. For its part, the triplicate order is evident everywhere. There are three levels of existence: Real, creation, and barzakh; three points of articulation for the letters: throat, lips, and middle of the mouth; three levels within the human being: reason, sense, and barzakh.87

Barzakh is the world of the imagination that stands as a mesocosm between the spiritual and material worlds. It is the “interworld”, as Henry Corbin calls it,88 the place where psycho–spiritual events including miracles, spiritual ascents, and theurgical operations take place. “Imagination”, as the Shaykh tells us, “is neither existent nor non–existent, neither known nor unknown, neither negated nor affirmed.”89 It is the broadest of universal planes, since, unlike the world of the senses, it contains everything that exists, “real” and “imaginary”. It is in this world of image–exemplars that the dialectical–monologue between the narrator and the various personae and faculties of himself takes place.





The Fourth Poem


After explaining the title and offering homage to the Prophet of the barzakh, the author turns again to rhyme. The fourth poem consists of eighteen lines in the metre basīt. Although separated from the preceding three poems, the fourth poem is connected with its predecessors through its end rhyme tā’ coupled with the first person singular pronoun suffix yā’:—ātī: (bi–dhâtī // iltifātī).

In addition, the author continues to group things in pairs, five of which are contrasting pairs: secretly/openly; enemies/friends; threat/grace; gathering/scattering; knight/maiden. Their effect here is more subdued than in the first three poems since they are not marked by the repeated refrain: “from … to …” (min … ilā …).

In this poem, the author engages in a clever repartee with himself. It is replete with paradoxes. His very assertion of self (īnnariī: here I am, or indeed I)90 would cause his annihilation. To utter “I” throws the speaker into a state of fanā’ - annihilation — in which friends and enemies, grace and punishment, disappear. There is only One who can properly say “I”.





Meetings in the Barzakh


The author now finds himself in a land “situated on the equator”, that is, in a momentary state of equilibrium where opposites are joined and realization of the Oneness of Being prevails. It is both a place–less place from which he will begin his ascent through the celestial spheres in imitation of the Prophet Muḥammad, and a balance–point within his very nature, anchoring his corporeal and spiritual dimensions. Thus we find both a cluster of sacred sites connected to this place of ascent: Mount Sinai, Mecca, Jerusalem (as the locus from which the Prophet was taken on his heavenly journey), and an allusion to the father of humanity, Adam, “fashioned of water and clay”, the synthesis of what is highest and lowest in creation.

The first stage in the ascent paradoxically involves a “plunge” into the sea of hayūlā, prime matter, later in the narrative to be symbolized by the ‘Anqā’ bird. hayūlā is yet another barzakh, the matrix of all form, spiritual and material. It is here that the levels of heaven and hell are made sensible to the inner vision. The Shaykh insists on the reality of these realms as they are depicted in the Qur’an.

Then he engages in a popular rhetorical device he had made good use of in earlier works: “Question and answer” (su’āl wa–jawāb). This abstruse exchange between the author and his unnamed interlocutor — who alludes to rather than explains his meaning clearly — serves to heighten the narrative’s drama.91 Used with unequaled power by the tenth–century Sufi al–Niffarī to describe the ineffable dialogue between the servant and God,92 his Andalusian admirer finds the opportunity to engage in riddled speech with the divine aspect of his being. In a speech that recalls Job’s Interlocutor from the Whirlwind, this alter ego, who both is and is not the author, both is and is not the Real, seems to be seeking to cut the author down to size: Where were you when I created the world and the spiritual realities? The truth demanded by the station demands that the servant realize his utter nonentity with respect to the transcendent and all–powerful God.

Seeking deliverance from the sea of matter, he is transformed into a more subtle form, which, despite its station, is still connected to the material world and at some remove from the One Reality. At the point where he leaves his Burāq — just as the Prophet dismounted and tied his steed to a post at the Masjid al–Aqṣā - we know that the author has begun his upward ascent. In a state of oscillation, like a lamp set swinging to celestial music, that brings to mind the poems at the beginning of the treatise, he realizes that he is still within the world of form, spiritual though it may be. What he longs for is annihilation in annihilation (al–fanā’fī al–fanā’), and the state of baqā’, subsistence, where all of the servant’s faculties are realized to be, in truth, God’s.93 When asked by his interlocutor where he is, whether established in this world or in the Essence, he can only answer in dualities and then invoke the prophets who are the guardians of the seven heavens through which he passes, high to low: Abraham, Moses, Aaron, Idrīs, Joseph, Jesus, and Adam.94 Despite what he acquires from the prophets, all of this pertains to the created world, not to the Essence itself. It seems that there is no escape on any level from his essential creatureliness.

The conversation that follows seeks to define the relationship between the Real and creation (ḥaqq and khalq). It culminates in the realization that, as God says in the aforementioned Prophetic tradition: “I am his hearing through which he hears, his eyesight through which he sees, his hand through which he holds, and his foot through which he walks.” The servant now knows the meaning of Ittiḥād as the coincidence of opposites — relative and absolute — in one locus, the Perfect Human Being: “Insofar as he manifests the Divine Attributes through his positive qualities, Man finds himself with God in a relation of similitude, but insofar as being is concerned, the difference is absolute, for Being (al–wujūd) belongs only to God.”95

At this point, the Universal Tree and the Four Birds are revealed — an echo of the Prophet’s arrival at the Lote Tree of the Limit.96 Each of the fantastic creatures, imaginatively conceived representations of the Perfect Human Being’s own faculties, addresses him both with an elegant speech in saj’ and a poem.





Soliloquies of the Universal Tree and the Four Birds


The Universal Tree (al–shajara al–kullī)

If you ask: What is the Tree?, we answer: [It is] the Perfect Human Being who governs the bodily temple (haykal) of the Crow.97

The first to address the author is the Universal Tree, otherwise known as the “human tree”, for it symbolizes the Human Being writ large, the archetypal “Perfect Human Being”, exemplified by such individuals as the Prophet Muḥammad, who reflect the totality of the Divine Names and Attributes in a synthetic form.

The Universal Tree is found in many of the world’s traditions, symbol of life eternal. Positioned as the central axis of the cosmos, it serves as a pivotal point around which creation revolves.98

Significant trees are found in numerous places in the Qur’an, including: the “goodly tree” (Q. 14:24-5); the “green tree” (Q. 36: 80); Adam’s Tree of Immortality (Q.20:12); Moses’ Burning Bush (Q. 28:30); the desiccated palm tree that Mary shook to provide her with dates (Q. 19:25); the tree underneath which the believers swore allegiance to Muḥammad (Q.48:18); the Lote Tree of the Limit (Q.53:14); the “Blessed Olive Tree” (Q.24:35); and, on a far less pleasing note, the “Accursed Tree” (Q. 17:60), the Tree of Zaqqūm, “a torment for wrongdoers” (see Q. 37:62-8) and “the food of the sinner” (see Q. 44:43-6). Prophetic reports give us the Ṭūbā tree, planted by God in the Garden of Paradise with His hand99 and the tree in which Muḥammad and the angel Gabriel nested during one of the Prophet’s Night Journeys.100

Ibn ‘Arabī’s works are also replete with trees. In the Futūḥāt, for example, all of the prominent trees mentioned in the Qur’an and hadith are discussed and interpreted, some at great length.101 Man himself, at one point, is called a tree.102

In a work once ascribed to Ibn ‘Arabī, entitled Shajarat al–kawn, or the Universal Tree,103 this symbol is extended and described in detail. The axial trunk of the cosmic Tree splits into two branches104 that represent the multifarious opposing qualities manifesting in all of creation: male/female; active/passive; Pen/Tablet; and so forth. Thus a ternary structure consisting of right–hand branch, left–hand branch, and central axis can be imagined. When leaves, symbolizing the myriad and ever–renewed forms of creation, are generated, a fourth element results, and a circle, encompassing this cruciform structure, comes into view. Quaternity embraces such notions as the four elements: fire, air, water, and earth, and four temperaments: hot, cold, dry, and wet — the basic building blocks and qualities of the embodied world. In our treatise, in keeping with this quaternity, Ibn ‘Arabī has placed four birds among the branches, representing the four–fold structure of the cosmos.

In Ibn ‘Arabī’s mapping of correspondences, the Universal Tree finds its human counterpart in the Quṭb, or Spiritual Pole, who anchors the coincidentia oppositorum and balances creation. “The Pole is the point round which everything turns — hence another symbol of the [S]elf “.105 Were he to disappear, the cosmos would dissolve into chaos. Mircea Eliade has noted, in his studies of symbols of sacred space,106 that whatever is privileged with centrality — be it mountain, city, or tree — provides a threshold between heaven and earth. The human representative of this mediation, the Pole, serves the same function in Ibn ‘Arabī’s writings, and is thus considered a barzakhī, or liminal figure.

In the Ittiḥād, the Tree is described as the Likeness, that is, the likeness of the Real, “whose root is firm and whose branches are in the heavens”.107 The likeness of the Tree / Perfect Human Being consists of its being modelled “upon the form” of the Divinity, hence it has both unity — represented by the well–rooted trunk — and multiplicity, reflected in the appearance of its branches, leaves, and fruits, as well as in its very name itself. One of the meanings of the Arabic root SH–J-R is “difference in opinion, dispute”.108 This is alluded to in the Futūḥāt, where the Shaykh states: “[God] made [man] a tree in which there is contentiousness (tashājur), because of his being created from contraries.”109

The Perfect Human Being is a copy (nuskha) of the divine, a synthesis of all the Divine Names and Attributes, and a heart110 capable of assuming any form.111 Like the Ṭūbā tree, the Universal Tree is planted with God’s own hand in the “where"-less place in the centre of the cosmos.





The Universal Tree’s Poem

The Tree’s poem consists of but five lines, in the metre wāfir. Its end rhyme is appropriately hamza, the first pronounced letter of the Arabic alphabet. In the majestic sway of the Tree’s recitation, the themes of straightness, balance, all–encompassment, and non–delimitation by form are reiterated.





The Ringdove (al–muṭawwaqa al–warqā’)

The Dove is the Soul that is between Nature and the Intellect.112

The dove is the universally recognized symbol of peace and universal love. In alchemy, as in Christian iconography, the dove represents pneuma, or spirit.

The Ringdove is more often called ḥamāma in Arabic literature, but her name here is muṭawwaqa warqā. What do we make of this less common appellation given to her by Ibn ‘Arabī? Again we must look to etymology. The consonantal root Ṭ–W-Q is connected with rings. The Ringdove is famous for her fidelity. Because of her dark neck–ring (ṭawq), she is faithfully bound forever to her mate.113 Despite her devotion, she is a weak bird and can be easily seized by birds of prey, such as the eagle, just as the heart can be seized by love.114 MuṬAwwaqa (ringed) is a passive participle, hence a receptacle of action. The Ringdove is something ringed by an agent, in this case the Eagle. The ring encircling the dove’s neck is sometimes interpreted by Ibn ‘Arabī as the covenant entrusted to her by the Real.115

What first comes to mind from the root W–R-Q is “leaves” or “paper”, in other words, something that is written upon. Since the Ringdove in Ibn ‘Arabī’s mystical aviary represents the Tablet (lawḥ) that receives the writing of the Supreme Pen (the Eagle), this is appropriate. Ibn ‘Arabī himself makes a connection between the Ringdove and leaves in Poem IX of his Tarjumān al–ashwāq: “A ringdove flitted past and a twig put forth leaves (awraqa).”116 Warqā also means silver, a metal that suggests the shimmering of the moon and the reflection of the sun’s superior light. ḥamāma, on the other hand, is associated with the root Ḥ–M-M, hence with the colour red and with heat.117

The Ringdove is a messenger bird. In Ibn ‘Arabī’s writings, doves are sometimes seen as bearers of inspiration. In Poem XXX of the Tarjumān, for instance, doves — here called hamām - bring inspiration so overwhelming that their song causes the poet to become unconscious.118 Ibn ‘Arabī obligingly interprets doves here as “spirits of the intermediate world, the bearers of the inspiration that comes at the tinkling sound, which is like the noise of a chain when it strikes a rock. They cause this heart to vanish, even as they themselves vanish on hearing that sound.”119

The Ringdove — when not seen with her loving partner — is more often than not found moaning and lamenting her loneliness. Poem XIII of the Tarjumān, in fact, makes reference to a ringdove who has lost her child — her unity (waḥdāniyya) as the Shaykh interprets it: “the special quality which distinguishes her from all things else …whereby she knows the unity of Him who brought her into being. The loss of it consists in her not knowing what it is and in its not being plainly discerned by her.”120

Another symbol represented by the ringdove is Jesus, the symbol of the universal spirit breathed into the human form.121 He, in turn, breathes life into the dead and the clay birds.

The Ringdove in philosophical terms is the Universal Soul.122 It is also occasionally called the Spirit (rūḥ) blown into forms, the first among existing things to come into existence through being sent forth (inbi’ath), and the first existent whose existence is the effect of a created being, a cause — that is, the First Intellect, which, in turn, was brought into existence by the Divine Command.123 The Universal Soul is thus passive in relation to the Intellect, just as the Intellect is passive in relation to the Real, and in this way is somewhat akin to matter’s reception of form.

The Soul, while it enjoys a high rank, occupies a subordinate level to the Intellect because of its duality, a fact that is reiterated throughout the Ringdove’s speech and poem. It has, for example, two “causes” or, as they are called in the Ittiḥād, “subtle threads” (raqā’iq).124 One is the “special face” that is turned toward God,125 which, in philosophical terms, is the efficient cause of the Soul’s existence. The other “face” is turned toward the First Intellect, which is the secondary cause (sabab) or, philosophically speaking, the formal cause, of its existence.

The Soul contains the attributes of both knowledge (‘ilm) and effectiveness (’amal).126 Its effective attribute brings the forms of the cosmos into existence: sensory forms — which are bodies and their sensible accidents — and supra–sensible forms — which are various sciences, knowledges, and desires pertaining to these bodies.127 Its attribute of knowledge is called “a father, for it produces an effect, while the attribute related to action is a mother, for it is the object of an effect”;128 that is, it is because the Soul has received all that exists in its undifferentiated state that it can generate it in differentiated form.

Duality also pervades the Soul in terms Ibn ‘Arabī describes as light and darkness, again sometimes related to the notion of “face”. The light face is turned toward the Intellect, from which it receives light like the moon from the sun; the dark face is turned toward the material world.129

In theological terms, the Ringdove is equivalent to the Preserved, or Inscribed Tablet, hence the notion of materiality is continued. The Tablet contains everything that the Pen writes upon it in detailed form, everything that God wills concerning creation until the Day of Resurrection.130

The Ringdove is also the equivalent of Eve, who is born from the sleeping Adam, “as if the intellect had not become aware of its creative power”.131 It is only when the receptive female element becomes manifest that the active male element is able to contemplate most perfectly its own ability to know and act in this mirror that both is and is not itself.132





The Ringdove’s Poem

Although we might expect the Eagle to address us first because of his precedent rank, he does not. Instead it is the Ringdove who regales us from her perch on the Tree with nineteen lines of poetry, whose end rhyme is —ānī (i). This is a fitting end rhyme for a creature whose poem both manifestly and subtly alludes to duality and doubling. First of all, there are four words in the first three lines, and an additional one in the twelfth, that are based on the consonantal root TH–N-Y, whose basic meaning is “two”. Another meaning of this root has to do with praise. The word mathnā, and its variant spelling mathnah, the plural of which in both instances is mathānin, is replete with symbolism, combining notions of repetition and praise. In particular we should note that al–mathānī can signify: (1) The Qur’an altogether, since it contains repeated mentions of certain dyads, such as reward and punishment, mercy and wrath; also that one reads it repeatedly without becoming weary. (2) The opening sura of the Qur’an, the Fātiha, which is repeated in every ritual prayer and at the beginning of the recitation of every Qur’anic verse, or because it contains praise of God. The Fātiḥa is often called, in fact, the “seven doubled ones” (al–sab’ al–mathānī).133 (3) Qur’anic verses that are repeated often — especially the Fātiḥa — in order to avert evil.134 The Ringdove, as a symbol of the Umm al–Kitāb, or heavenly prototype of the Qur’an, inscribed by the Supreme Pen, thus aptly names herself as the “doubled one”.

An additional doubling is fortuitously found in the Ringdove’s own name: al–muṭawwaqa al–warqā. The first part contains a doubled wāw and the second a qāf with two dots!

The Ringdove continues to allude to the notion of duality as she remarks: “They call me ‘O second’!” But as she tells us, and as we have already intuited by her preceding the Eagle in her address, she is not in actuality the second. As Ibn ‘Arabī explains elsewhere, the four spiritual beings: Intellect, Soul, Prime Matter, and Body, represented here by the four birds, in one sense occupy one rank.

Additional — less obvious — allusions to duality appear in the end rhyme of the poem itself: the suffix -ān in Arabic is a mark of the dual. Furthermore, the Ringdove has a penchant for repeating certain roots. Besides the five instances of words derived from TH–N-Y, there are two derived from ‘-N–Y (meaning), three derived from its permutation ‘-Y–N, and two from a closely related root ‘-W–N. There are two derived from ‘-L–Y (high) along with three from the closely related W–L-Y(friend). Then there are two derived from D–N-N (earthen jug), along with three from its close relative D–N-W (near, low). Finally, there are three from Q–ṣ-W(far).

The Ringdove makes repeated references to things high and low, near and far. As we have mentioned above, she is connected to the Eagle and to her Lord by “subtle threads” (raqā’iq) that connect level to level in the hierarchy of existence.





The Eagle (‘uqāb)


If you ask: What is the Eagle?, we answer: [It is] the Divine Spirit which the Real breathed into the bodily temples as if they were their moving and quiescent spirits.135



Eagles have long been connected with royalty and temporal power. The most regal of the birds of prey, they are known for their dizzying ascents and swooping descents, lingering on earth just long enough to grasp the unsuspecting field mouse. They have a reputation for inaccessibility, living in mountain eyries. Their vision is so powerful and acute that they are said to be able to look at the sun without blinking.

In alchemy, the Eagle, especially the double–eagle, is a symbol — along with the raven — for Mercurius, the double–natured symbol of the philosopher’s stone. The Eagle is “synonymous with phoenix, vulture, raven”.136

Why does Ibn ‘Arabī call the Eagle ‘uqāb rather than the more common nasr? Etymology may have something to do with it. The consonantal root ‘-Q–B has a semantic range that includes: heel, coming after, following, taking one’s place (as, for example, a vicegerent), punishment, consequence, result of an action, time or state of subsequence, recompense, offspring, mountain road, retaliation, sinews, and tendons. It is also described in ancient sources as a rock or mass of stone protruding in the side of a mountain like a stair or series of stairs. From this derives the meaning of ‘aqaba as a place that is difficult to ascend. The root also has the meaning of a “chief” or a “lord”. The Eagle plays the role of a grand old shaykh. He is Adam as first vicegerent of God (khalīfa).

The word ’uqāb is also associated with the Prophet Muḥammad. First of all, it was his standard or banner, to which rallied his supporters for battle. Secondly, the Prophet assigned the name “al-‘Aqib” to himself because he came after the other prophets and was the last of the prophets.

In philosophical terms, the Eagle is the First Intellect. The Prophet is reported to have said: “The first thing that God created was the Intellect.”137 It came into existence from nothing (mawjūd al–ibdat), meaning directly from God without intermediary or secondary cause.

The Essential Attribute connected to the Intellect is Life.138 The Intellect is also compared to Light from which all other lights, that is, intellects, are kindled.139 As such, it is analogous to the primordial Muḥammadan Light of prophecy, from which all prophets throughout time drew their derivative light.

In theological terms specific to Islam, the Eagle is the Supreme Pen. It is created from the Breath, which Ibn ‘Arabī in places equates with the Cloud. Ibn ‘Arabī describes the Intellect as “the bearer (ḥāmil) of everything that is known, high and low … which takes from God without intermediary”.140 It receives the dictation of all that is to be in summary form and inscribes it on the Tablet, which preserves it in detailed form.

The Eagle’s Poem

The Eagle recites ten lines in kāmil (meaning: “perfect”) metre, whose end rhyme is ‘ayn. The Eagle’s poem expresses well the Intellect’s high role in the hierarchy of existence. A subtext of the verse is the Qur’anic story of Adam’s creation (Q. 2:30-9) as God’s vicegerent on the earth. When God announced His plans, the angels were dismayed: “Wilt Thou place therein one who will do harm therein and shed blood?” (Q.2:30). Thus the lines: “Approach confers upon me a pleasing wisdom but it rends the heart of the elevated spirit.” What the angels did not know was that Adam was created “upon His form”, as a perfect reflection of his Creator. Moulded with two hands, he encompassed more of the Divinity than the angels could, as they were created only to praise and obey. As vicegerent, the Intellect/Adam was taught “all the names” - whether these are thought of as the Divine Names or the names of everything in creation: “The realities hurry toward me to seek their portion”, that is, their names. It was because of this all–encompassing knowledge that the angels — with the exception of Satan — realized Adam’s superiority and obeyed God’s command to prostrate themselves before Adam.

The poem plays with the ideas of closeness and distance, approach and retreat. As in the story of Adam, it is the Intellect’s disobedience and setting itself up as independent arbiter that causes distance from the Real, while realizing its servanthood and utter dependence is what brings it near.

The ‘Anqā’

If you ask: What is the ‘Anqā’?, we answer: [It is] the Dust (habā’), which is neither existent nor non–existent, although it assumes form in the vision–event.141

The ‘Anqā’ is the Dust in which God reveals/opens (fataha) the bodies of the world.142



The ‘anqā’, sometimes translated into English as either gryphon or phoenix, is a mythical bird. Early Arabic lexicographers struggled to define this creature none had ever seen. It is said to be perhaps a kind of eagle (’uqāb) or vulture (rakhama) or a crested black bird or one that is bald and has a long yellow beak.143 Sometimes those seeking an etymological connection describe it as long–necked (’unuq in Arabic means “neck”). The form ’anūq, according to the lexicographers, is either male or female, singular or plural, but the form ‘anqā’ is feminine. The ‘anqā’ is said to live atop the inaccessible Mount Qāf. Sometimes her high mountain habitat itself is called ‘anqā’?144

Many proverbs exist concerning this odd bird, and from the beginning it was associated with all that was marvellous, occult, and strange. “Rarer than the eggs of the ’anūq”145 was one such proverb, and the Turkish ismi var cismi yok - it has a name but not a body — came to symbolize “everything that exists only in the imagination”.146

The ‘anqā’ has certain similarities to another fanciful female bird, the simurgh, described as “the manifestation of spiritual reality”.147 The simurgh is the object of the birds’ quest in ‘AṬṭar’s famous parable. The ‘anqā’ and the simurgh find a felicitous pairing in the avian symbolism of a follower of Rūzbihān Baqlī: “These are the places of the descent of the Sīmurgh of the spirit … [and] the ascent of the ‘anqā’ of the heart.”148

The phoenix plays a major role in alchemical texts, in which the very alchemical process is said to begin in chaos and end in the birth of the phoenix, or philosopher’s stone.149

In Ibn ‘Arabī’s symbology, as we have discovered, etymology provides a rich mine to explore. In the case of the “Strange ‘anqā’” (‘anqā’ mughrib, or sometimes mugharrib), the consonantal root GH–R-B conveys the following semantic range: distance, removal, exile, foreignness, hiddenness, the setting sun, west, strangeness, improbability, obscurity, and incomprehensibility.

It is also connected with the quality of blackness. For instance, it is a certain intensely black grape, and intensely black hair.150 Note that both the ‘anqā’ and her son the Crow (ghurāb) are connected with this root, the ‘anqā’ primarily with connotations of hidden–ness and strangeness, while the Ghurāb, as we shall see, is primarily associated with distance and blackness. It was no doubt quite intentional, on Ibn ‘Arabī’s part, to choose his four birds with an eye to the symbolic gradations of light. The Eagle, as we have seen, is pure light; the Ringdove, a mixture of light and darkness, with light predominating; the ‘anqā’, an ambiguous twilight, tending toward dark; and the Crow, jet–black midnight.

On the negative side, the term ‘anqā’ mughrib is also connected to the notion of calamity or misfortune. The expression ṭarât bihi ‘anqā’ mughrib means: calamity or misfortune carried him away.151 Moreover, the early animal encyclopaedists did not hesitate to put the ’anūq in the category of dung–eaters.152 In a similarly negative vein, the ‘anqā’ was sometimes associated with the jinn. In a tradition, inna fī-kum mugharribīn means: “Among you are those in whom the jinn have a partnership or share” because of their coming from remote or foreign stock.153

Because among its meanings is “west”, it is also associated both with the geographical west, that is, the Maghreb, where Ibn ‘Arabī spent much of his youth, and the spiritual meaning of “west” as esoteric knowledge. This contrasts with the Illuminationist school, founded by the martyred Suhrawardī, which saw the west as the dark realm of the body and the east as the source of spiritual knowledge and light. In Ibn Arabī’s early work Anqā’ mughrib, the narrator alludes cryptically to the Seal of the Saints, Jesus, both as the ‘anqā’ mughrib and as the Sun which, according to Islamic tradition, will rise in the west at the end of time.

There is an obvious parallel between the Phoenix (often the translation of choice for ‘anqā’) and Khālid, both of whom are connected with fire, death, and resurrection.154 Here is ’Attar on the Phoenix:

The Phoenix is an admirable and lovely bird which lives in Hindustan. It has no mate and lives alone. … The Phoenix lives about a thousand years and he knows exactly the day of his death. When his time comes he gathers round him a quantity of palm leaves and, distraught among the leaves, utters plaintive cries. … His lamentations express the sorrow of death, and he trembles like a leaf. At the sound of his trumpet the birds and the beasts draw near to assist the spectacle. Now they fall into bewilderment, and many die because their strength fails them. While the Phoenix still has breath, he beats his wings and ruffles his feathers, and by this produces fire. The fire spreads to the palm fronds, and soon both the fronds and the bird are reduced to living coals and then to ashes. But when the last spark has nickered out a new small Phoenix arises from the ashes.155



In philosophical parlance, the ‘anqā’ is a metonym for the Greek notion of hylê (Arabic: hayūlā), or prime matter,156 which Ibn ‘Arabī, citing precedent in the Qur’an,157 ’Ali ibn Abī Ṭālib, and the Sufi Sahl al–Tustarī (d.896),158 generally prefers to call Dust (habā’). In its original meaning, habā’ was the dust particles that dance in the rays of the sun. Appropriated by Arabic alchemists such as Jābir, habā’ was seen as the constitution of the material world in formation.159 Associated with the sheer potentiality160 and the female principle — hence the feminine gender of the ‘anqā’ in the Ittiḥād - prime matter is capable of taking on any form and as such is the matrix and ground for the universe.

The notion of prime matter is a particularly difficult one to grasp, especially since the term “matter” in modern terms suggests the stuff of reality that we can physically sense and grasp. But prime matter is nothing of this sort. As the Ikhwān al–ṣāfā’ (Brethren of Purity) write, “It is a simple intelligible substance that cannot be perceived by sense.”161 It is completely dimensionless, unquantifiable, and devoid of actual content, while containing at the same time the potential forms of all existence. As such, even understanding it becomes impossible. One is left only with knowledge of its name and the faculty of imagination, which is its domain, to give it form.

The origin of this Dust, according to Ibn ‘Arabī, is God’s desire to bring the cosmos into existence and His theophany “in the Universal Reality162 - a reality called Dust”.163 The Shaykh compares it to the plaster with which a builder moulds whatever forms he wishes. God manifests Himself as Light to the Dust, and every thing existing in potentia in this Dust receives His light according to its particular predisposition, “as the corners of a room receive the light of a torch, and are more fully and brightly lit up the nearer they are to the torch”.164

Habā’, says Ibn ‘Arabī, is present in all natural forms, and cannot be divided, separated, or decreased. He compares it to the whiteness that can be perceived in every white thing.165 In this it appears to be equivalent to the philosophical universal accident that has no reality save when it manifests in an underlying subject or substance. Another example, given in the Futūḥāt, makes this even clearer. Knowledge, says the Shaykh, in itself is neither eternal nor temporal. In the Eternal One, knowledge is eternal; in the creature, knowledge is temporally originated. “In every essence it accords with its own reality and entity. But it has no existential entity except the entity of that which it describes. So it remains in its root: an intelligible thing, not an existent thing.”166

Hayūlā, moreover, is not only associated with cosmology and epis–temology but is also used in connection with the Perfect Human Being. For example, Ibn ‘Arabī tells the reader in his Fuṣūṣ, “Be the hayūlā of all the doctrinal beliefs”,167 meaning: Do not limit yourself to any particular Face that God shows to the believers, for they are infinite. It is to this all–encompassment that he refers when he says in what is perhaps his most memorable lines of verse: “My heart has become capable of every form: it is a pasture for gazelles and a convent for Christian monks, /And a temple for idols and the pilgrim’s Ka‘ ba and the tables of the Tora and the book of the Koran.”168

In his Dīwān, the Shaykh composed a poem to the ‘anqā’, which we give here in full as it expresses so well the nature of this strange creature:

I marvel at a being that comprises every form,

Whether of essential angels, jinn, or humankind;

Whether of this world or of the world–supernal,

Of animal, vegetable, or mineral.

These are naught beside it,

Nor yet are they its essence,

But in any form it wills, it manifests itself.

It is what appears, by definition, to perception,

Yet it is what remains veiled from conception.

For minds cannot know it by the force of their thinking,

But Imagination makes it manifest to sense.

It is the Living, although no life supports its Essence

In the way that all the forms subsist in [life].

Inform me then, who it may be that I have indicated

In what we have described (and cast aside conceptions):

There it is — concealed, but without being absent;

And there, again, envisaged, but hidden from vision!

I would like to know: Of the likes of it have you

Ever heard or no? - Inform me, then, who is it?

But no one knows what we have adduced here

Except for One, and that is God.

No creature can ever comprehend it.

None there is like unto it, except one personage:

I marvel at the One Perfect that he epitomizes!169



The ‘anqā’s Poem

The ‘anqā"s poem, like that of the Tree,170 has but five lines, whose end rhyme is dāl, primarily -ūd with the exception of the final word of the poem that ends in -īd. A long “u”, inserted between the final two consonants of a first–form verb, indicates the passive participle, the recipient of an action, for example mamdūd. This participle is particularly apt for the ‘anqā’ who, as a metonym for prime matter, receives all forms.171





The Jet–Black Crow (al–ghurāb)


If you ask: What is the Crow?, we answer: [It is] the Universal Body, which the Eagle made appear by means of the Dove.172



The raven or crow is a bird that is often, perhaps because of its colour, connected with the occult. In alchemical lore, the raven — like the eagle and the phoenix — is one of the symbols for Mercurius, the Lāpis philosophorium.173 It is thus associated with everything that is solid, dark, and earthy. It represents the first stage of the alchemical process, melanosis or nigredo, “either present from the beginning as a quality of the material prima, the chaos or massa confusa, or else produced by the separation … of the elements”.174 Ibn ‘Arabī appears to be well acquainted with the alchemical art when he has the Ghurāb call himself the alembic (būṭāqa), an alchemical term. Jung tells us that the alembic’s ideal shape was perfectly round — or sometimes egg–shaped, in imitation of the womb and the heavenly bodies.175 Universal Body, the Ghurāb’s metaphysical reality, is also created round: “The first shape that this body received was the circular shape.”176

Crows inhabit “the hibernal–material world”177 and are associated with death and entombment. The ghurāb is found in the Qur’an in this connection in the remarkable story of Cain and Abel. Following Cain’s murder of his brother: “Allah sent a raven scratching up the ground, to show him how to hide his brother’s naked corpse. He said: Woe unto me! Am I not able to be as this raven and so hide my brother’s naked corpse? And he became repentant"(Q. 5:31).

In Arabic literature, the crow or raven — the two are not distinguished — generally has a negative connotation for the reasons we have alluded to above.178 In Rumī’s poetry, for example, the crow is considered an ugly and predaciousbird, a consumer of carrion and dung. By extension, it is a symbol of those attracted by the material world. It also has a reputation for sharp–sightedness, caution, and pride.

Crows are almost invariably birds of ill–omen. In many a pre–Islamic poem, the ghurāb al–bayn - archetypal bird of separation — signals the impending separation of lover and beloved. Ibn ‘Arabī employs the motif of the ghurāb al–bayn in his poetry upon occasion. In Poem XV of the Tarjumān al–ashwāq, for example, he writes: “Gone, gone, / cawed the crows of separation, / God leave rotting on the path / a crow that caws! // And what are the crows of separation / but camel stallions / pacing hard, / taking those we love away.”179

In pre–Islamic Arabia, Ghurāb was a personal name which, according to tradition, Muḥammad would not allow the Muslims to keep because of its etymological association with separation from one’s homeland (ghurba) and its natural association with the foul carrion–eating bird.

In philosophical terms, the Jet–Black Crow represents Universal Body. Universal Body is sometimes known as “Second Matter”,180 the first metaphysical step to concrete existence.181 It is absolute, unqualified body which, because it receives effects from Nature in the form of the four elements, is the first natural form.182 Unlike hayūlā, Universal Body is quantifiable and determinate; it has length, width, and depth. A “corporeal sphere”, it “fills the Void”, and “within it every corporeal thing in the cosmos takes shape”.183

As Ibn ‘Arabī says in the ‘Uqlat al–mustawfiz: “The first form that received the form of the body is length, breadth, and depth. … Its length is from the Intellect, its width from the Soul, and its depth is the space that extends to the centre [of the earth]. For this reason, these three realities were in it, and it was three–dimensional.”184

The Universal Body is given the shape of a circle, the most perfect of shapes,185 and it has movement, not from place to place but around its axis, “like a hand–mill”.186 This movement is caused by heat, for, if the elements of the body were perfectly equilibrated, it would be stationary and there would be no manifestation whatsoever. Thus the series of revolving celestial spheres are the first and finest of the corporeal bodies to come into existence in Universal Body.

Universal Body is associated with fullness (malā’) as contrasted to void (khalā’), and it is in the Shaykh’s chapter on Retreat (khalwa) in the Futūḥāt that some of his most intriguing remarks concerning Universal Body can be found. The first thing to fill the void, according to Ibn ‘Arabī, was the dimensionless Dust, a “dark substance”.187 Then the Real manifested Himself to this substance with His Name the Light, dyeing it and removing from it the darkness of non–existence. It then was attributed with existence and became what the early philosophers called the “Great Man” (al–insān al–kabīr), in other words, the macrocosm. The forms of shapes were unfolded within this body: shapes of the celestial spheres, the elements, and all generated beings, the human — called the “Small Man” - constituting the last of them. This human being, created upon the form of the Real and the cosmos, bringing together every attribute, is God’s vicegerent, the Perfect Human Being. Thus, as the Shaykh elegantly puts it, “the Dusty–Substance impregnated with Light is the basic element (al–basīṭ), the manifestation of the cosmos in it is the intermediary (al–wasīṭ), and the Perfect Human Being is the summary (al–wajīz)”.188

In Chapter 198 of the Futūḥāt, the Divine Name associated with Universal Body is the Manifest (al–ẓāhir), because it is the final outcome of the divine creative process, the complete filling of the void or womb of non–existence with life in all its manifest forms. The prophetic wisdom exemplified by this Name is that of Abraham, who, with his epithet “the Intimate Friend” (khalīl) exhibits the complementary qualities of voiding (khalā’)189 of self and filling (malā’) with God. Permeated with divine qualities, as light permeates inchoate matter, Abraham becomes the manifest locus of the hidden God: “If … the creature is considered the manifest and the Reality the Unmanifest within him, then the Reality is in the hearing of the creature, as also in his sight, hand, foot, and all his faculties, as declared in the [well–known] Holy Tradition of the Prophet.”190 To deprecate the material world is thus to fail to witness the fullness of God’s Self–disclosure in the manifold vessels of the cosmos and to be ignorant of both oneself and God. “The spirit cannot rationally understand itself without the body, which is the locus of ‘how many’ and manyness. … It does not know its humanness without the existence of the body along with it.”191

An additional connection between Abraham and the Ghurāb should be noted. Corbin has pointed out that the site of the Maqām Ibrāhīm (Station of Abraham) is located in the western area of the Ka’ba precinct. Hence, the notions of setting and exile are appropriately attributed to this archetypal monotheist, who refused to worship what sets, and chose exile over idol worship.192





The jet–Black Crow’s Poem

The Jet–Black Crow has twenty lines of verse, whose metre is ramal and whose end rhyme is —ant, like the Ringdove’s. The world–shunning philosophers have maligned the Body as the source of darkness and evil, but the Crow seeks to set the record straight. As a manifestation of the Divine Name “the Last”,193 he is the very crown of creation; as a manifestation of the Name “the Manifest” he is the matrix for the corporeal entities of the universe. Although dark himself, he is the source of the myriad sparks of light in that the stars and planets are all derived from Universal Body. His poem thus contains an extended allusion to the Light verse of Sura 24.

Since the cosmos is created upon principles of arithmetic, geometry, and music, all these principles receive their first determination in the Universal Body. For that reason, the Crow rightly calls himself the “foundation of songs”.

The Jet–Black Crow, because of his darkness, is a keeper of secrets and a repository of the Trust.194 The one who can unravel his secret is someone who is also associated with the chthonic realm: ṣakhr ibn ṣinān, prophet of the Barzakh.





Cosmic Marriage195’and the Genealogy of the Birds


According to Ibn ‘Arabī, the entire universe is the locus of marriage and procreation, not only among material beings but in the divine and spiritual realms as well. God, for example, engenders the universe in nothingness when He brings the fixed entities (al–a‘yān al–thābita) into existence.196

The Pen and the Tablet are also paired as a cosmic couple:

Between the Pen and the Tablet there is an intelligible spiritual marriage and a visible sensory effect. The effect that was deposited in the Tablet was like the sperm that is ejaculated into the womb of the female. The meanings deposited within the celestial letters that became manifest from that writing are like the spirits of the children deposited within their bodies.197



Even syllogisms are engaged in procreation. Deductive knowledge can only result from the “marriage” of two premises, which takes place when a single term is repeated. This constitutes the marriage act between them, and the conclusion that is “born” from them is thus called their “child”.198

In many places throughout the Futūḥāt, as we have alluded to above, Ibn ‘Arabī speaks about the relations between the ontologi–cal levels in terms of fathers, mothers, and children.199 He states this principle as follows: “Everything that exercises an effect is a father, and everything that receives an effect is a mother. … That which is born between the two from the effect is called a son or a child.”200

God is thus the “First Father” and (non–existent) “thingness” is the First Mother. Marriage on this level takes place through the existential command: Be! The child that results is the possible thing upon which existence has been bestowed.201 This cosmic pattern appears at every level of creation, but other than the role of First Father, which is fulfilled by God alone, the rest of the existing entities take turns at being fathers and mothers, depending on whether they have an active or a passive role. For this reason, the Eagle/Pen/Intellect is a mother as well as a father, a Tablet as well as a Pen, although we see him in the Ittiḥād primarily in his masculine role.

The four birds are thus related to one another in a variety of ways, the most evident of which is through a hierarchical descent. The Eagle, brought into existence by the Real, gives birth from himself to the Ringdove, through the agency of the Real’s command. Their mating, the tale of which constitutes a large portion of the Ringdove’s soliloquy, results in the ‘anqā’, who is the mother of the Crow. We are not told who the Crow’s father is, and the narrator does not pursue the genealogy further.

The bird’s family tree, if we may call it that, is complicated, however, by the fact that they represent cosmological figures whose relation to one another is a serious matter of dispute. One member of the family, for example, appears to be altogether missing.





Nature

Anyone acquainted with the Shaykh’s extensive writings on cosmology in the Futūḥāt and elsewhere will note the absence of Nature among these cosmic principles making up the family tree of the four birds. In Chapter 198 of the Futūḥāt, for example, we find an enumeration of the twenty–eight levels of existence that places Nature between the level of the Universal Soul and that of the Dust. In fact, the Shaykh explains that the level of Nature can only be between the Soul and the Dust, for “Every body that the Dust accepts, down to the last existing body, is natural.”202 Nature’s authority extends from the Dust to everything below it, while the Universal Soul’s authority extends from Nature to everything below it. As for what is above the Soul, that is, the Intellect and what is above it, neither Nature nor Soul have any authority over it.

In some instances, however, the Shaykh places Nature and Dust at an approximately equal level, Nature being slightly higher only because of its priority in time:

Among those things that were cast [into the Soul] through a most sanctified, spiritual casting [that is, from the First Intellect] were Nature and the Dust. Hence the Soul was the first mother to give birth to twins. The first thing she cast down was Nature, which was followed by the Dust. Hence Nature and the Dust are brother and sister from a single father and a single mother. Then [God] gave Nature in marriage to the Dust. Born from them was the form of the Universal Body, which was the first body to become manifest. Nature is the father because it produces effect. Dust is the mother because within it effects become manifest. The result is the Body.203



This appears to answer the question of the Crow’s progenitor: his father is Nature. We should not be surprised at seeing Mother Nature personified here as masculine, for it only means that Nature is the active force in the marriage act between it and the Dust. But this does not solve the problem of why Nature does not appear in the Ittiḥād at all.

It is possible that a clue to this mystery can be found in a passage of the Futūḥāt in which Ibn ‘Arabī appears to completely reverse his position regarding the relative positions of the entities in question: “[T]hose who have placed Nature in a level below the Soul and above the Hyle … have no witnessing”,204 that is, they have not seen things as they really are. He goes on to resolve this contradiction by explaining that:

If a person does have witnessing and [nonetheless] holds this view, he means [by it] that Nature which becomes manifest through its authority in the translucent corporeal bodies, that is, in the Throne and what it surrounds. This second Nature is to the first as the daughter is to the woman who is the mother; like her mother, she gives birth, even if she is a daughter born from her.205



Nature, it now appears, occupies two rungs on the genealogical ladder. Thus far, we have only been concerned with that aspect of Nature which gives rise to physical bodies, from the celestial spheres to the four elements and everything in between. This “second Nature” is the cosmogonie ‘Anqâ’. But as the Shaykh tells us above, there is an aspect of Nature that transcends this second Nature and occupies a rank even higher than that of the First Intellect and Universal Soul — a Nature which, Ibn ‘Arabī says, “is more worthy to be attributed to the Real than anything else, since everything else becomes manifest only in that which becomes manifest from Nature, that is, the Breath [of the All–Merciful], which permeates the cosmos.”206

Nature as first Mother is all–inclusive. Ibn ‘Arabī equates this Nature with the Breath of the All–Merciful: “Universal Nature, by its form, comes before those things that derive their being from her. In reality, Nature is the Breath of the Merciful in which are unfolded the forms of the higher and lower Cosmos.”207 Breath manifests as a vaporous Cloud — that symbolic representation of the totality of animated entities, generated at every instant through God’s loving mercy. With every flash of metaphysical light, the cosmos comes into existence, returns to non–existence, and receives new existence perpetually within God’s knowledge of Himself. In every moment, an endless process of divine exhalation and inhalation breathes life into the entities, annihilates them, and revivifies them eternally.

This Cloud is sometimes equated with the Reality of Realities, or Universal Reality. It is, so to speak, hayūlā writ large. To give an example which, although provided by Ibn ‘Arabī, is probably more familiar to readers of Plato, it is the Form of Knowledge as opposed to the Form of the chair. There is nothing that this Reality does not contain, since it embraces every concept, from the Real to the real, including the very notion of being itself:

The Cloud is that which we have mentioned as eternal in the eternal and temporally originated in the temporally originated. This is like your words, or identical with your words, concerning Being/ existence. When you attribute it to the Real, you say it is Eternal, but when you attribute it to creation, you say that it is temporally originated. So the Cloud inasmuch as it is a description of the Real is a divine description, but inasmuch as it is a description of the cosmos it is an engendered description.208



Since this Reality is qualified neither by existence nor by non–existence, Ibn ‘Arabī sometimes calls it the “third thing” and the “All–embracing Universal”, and says that it is from this third thing that the world becomes manifest.209 Embracing all realities, particularizing them at will in a myriad of forms, this is the ‘anqā’ in her noetic aspect. “Call it, if you wish, the Reality of Realities, or hylê, First Matter, or supreme genus. … This third thing can never be separate from the Necessary Being, standing parallel to It, without having entified existence.”210

There is still one more step we must take, one more form that the ‘anqā’ must assume to complete the triplicate aspect of her nature: that of the Universal Tree, symbol of the Perfect Human Being, whose “shade extends over those whom God envelops in His solicitude”.

The Perfect Human Being, and Muḥammad in particular, is sometimes depicted as the microcosmic counterpart of the Breath of the All–Merciful. We should recall that the Fuṣūṣ begins with the divine exhalation that gives form to the cosmos and its likeness Adam, and it ends with Muḥammad, the perfect vessel of mercy, who receives and gives form to the Divine Breath: “When Muḥammad was created a pure servant, he had no ambition for leadership, but continued prostrating and standing [before his Lord], a passive creation, until God effected [His purpose] in him, when He conferred on him an active role in the realm of the Breaths.”211

Muḥammad, then, also occupies two levels: he is both the principle and the aim of creation. The highest of these levels is called the primordial Muḥammadan Reality, or the Muḥammadan Light, which lies above the levels of spiritual and material creation. It is to this that the Prophet’s claim, “I was a prophet when Adam was between water and clay”, refers. The other level is his specific universal mission as the Prophet Muḥammad, the embodied Seal of the Prophets, who lived and died as a fully human being.

The Perfect Human Being embraces all reality, divine and human, never known in itself, but only through relationship. The Perfect Human Being is a synthesis of all the words of existence, all Names of beauty and all Names of severity; a kaleidoscope of light and darkness; a heart that embraces every form, from mosque to fire temple; a microcosmic mundus imaginalis, where what is and what is not happily co–exist.

The secret of the birds’ genealogy, therefore, lies in the ‘anqā"s unique position as First and Second Mothers — a fact that allows her to rightly claim that “nothing can be manifested that I am not in”. The ‘anqā’, as First Mother, gives life to all. In this sense, she strangely gives birth to her father, the Intellect, bringing to mind the paradoxical lines from al–Ḥallaj’s cosmological–alchemical poem “Uqtulûnīyâ thiqātṬ’:212

My mother has given birth to her father,

What a marvel is mine!

And my daughters, ’though my daughters, are my sisters,

Not by the act of time, no,

Nor by the act of adultery213




1. Fut. II 130, Chap. 73, Question 153.

2. Al-Ḥakīm, Al-Mu’jamal-sûfī, p. 1180.

3. Fut. II 130, Chap. 73, Question 153. In the case of numbers, one remains the essence of every number; two, although it has a different name, is nothing but one plus one. The name “one” has disappeared. In the case of nature, various names designate the many forms of existing things, but the essence remains one, hidden.

4. See also Fut. IV. 71, Chap. 456, and Gril’s translation (Arbre, p. 19) concerning the identity of the Voice that addressed Moses from the Burning Bush (here simply the Tree). The upshot is that the Real is both the Speaker in the form of the Tree and the Hearer in the form of Moses, without the Tree ceasing to be a tree or Moses ceasing to be Moses. There is no ḥūül (dissolving of essences) because, as we have seen above, a thing cannot unite with its own essence.

5. A ḥadīth qudsī is the extra-Qur’anic speech of God, transmitted on the authority of the Prophet Muḥammad.

6. See Ibn ‘Arabī’s Mishkāt al-anwār, trans. Hirtenstein and Notcutt as Divine Sayings, hadith 91, p. 88 (English), p. 51 (Arabic) for the complete text. Note that, for Ibn ‘Arabī, only the human being, fashioned upon the divine Form, can participate in God’s creativity by engaging in supererogatory acts of worship; angels, on the other hand, have a certain one-dimensionality in that they can only engage in what is obligatory. See Fut. IV. 30, Chap. 421 (trans. Chittick, SPK, p.328): “The angels are servants by compulsion, while we are servants by compulsion through our obligatory works and by free choice through our supererogatory works.”

7. See Fut. II 31, Chap. 73: “If it were not for the dependence of the essence of the servant, the authority of these two Names [the First and the Last] would not become manifest, since the essence ‘ayn) [with respect to God] is one and it is not united (muttaḥida), while with respect to the servant it is united, not one. Oneness (aḥadiyya) belongs to God while unification (Ittiḥād), not Oneness, belongs to the servant. For the servant cannot be conceived as other than [dependent] on someone else, not on himself, so he has no whiff of Oneness ever. One can conceive Oneness of the Real and one can conceive relation (iḍāfa) of Him, because everything belongs to Him, or rather He is the essence ‘ayn) of all.”

8. Fut. II 322, Chap. 178.

9. See Fut. II 334.

10. Fut. II 334, Chap. 178. See also Fut. II 390 where Ibn ‘Arabī makes an explicit connection between this line of al-Ḥallāj’s poem and two lines from the Shaykh’s own Risālat al-ittiḥâd. See our translation, p. 24, n. 10 and p. 30, n. 24.

11. Fut. II 351, Chap. 178.

12. Ibid.

13. Ibid. This appears to be the only explicit mention of the R. al-Ittiḥād in the Futühāt.

14. Fut. II 184, Chap. 101. See also Fut. II. 126.

15. Fut. IV. 449, Chap. 560.

16. K. al-masā’II, pp. 164-5 (mas’āla 41).

17. Fuṣüṣ, pp. 80-1; Austin, Bezels of Wisdom, pp. 91-2.

18. Fut. II 22, Chap. 73.

19. See above, pp. 56-7.

20. Fuṣüṣ, p. 80.

21. In Fut. IV. 24, Chap. 417, Ibn ‘Arab! notes that: “obligatory acts (farā’id) are higher and more loved by God than supererogatory ones (nawāfil). … God the Most High said: ‘[My servant] does not draw near to Me by anything I love more than by that which I have prescribed for him.’” He then quotes the rest of the hadīth qudsī, and remarks: “This is the result of supererogatory acts, so what do you think about the result of obligatory acts by which the servant will be God’s hearing and sight?!” See also Fut. II 173, IV. 30, 449-50.

22. Trans. Austin (slightly modified), Bezels of Wisdom, p. 95.

23. Q.2:117, 3:47, 16:40, 19:35, 36:82, 40:68.

24. See, for example, Fut. III. 283.

25. ‘"Engendered existence’ translates al-kawn. It may be that Ibn al-’Arabī means by this term ‘all that is,’ including both God and the cosmos. Then, when we ‘leave aside’ the totality, we observe the two sides. However, although the word kawn can apply to the wujūd [being/finding] of God in some contexts, al-kawn is typically a technical term meaning everything other than God, everything that has come to be as the result of the divine command kun.” Chittick, SDG, p. 407, n.29.

26. For extensive discussion of the Perfect Human Being in Ibn ‘Arabī’s thought, see Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism, pp. 218-83; Takeshita, Theory of the Perfect Man.

27. “God is present and finds Himself in all things, and man witnesses this presence and finding to the extent of his capacity.” Chittick, SPK, p. 226.

28. See Gril, Arbre, p.8. Gril notes that the alternating symmetry in the title’s words (Ittiḥād/ishhād and kawnī/’aynī) is echoed in the introductory poems, which depict the bi-polarity of Man. Hence, he says, the treatise comprises two parts, one devoted to the supreme realization of the Perfect Man, the other to his universality as symbolized by the Tree and the four Birds.

29. For variants of this hadith, see Muslim, Qadar 17; Tirmidhī, Qadar 7, Da’awāt 89; Ibn Māja, Muqaddima 13; Aḥmad II, 168, 173; VI, 182, 251, 302, 315.

30. Avariant gives: vastness/narrowness; narrowness/the Footstool.

31. Gril, Arbre, p.22.

32. See ‘Afīfī, Fuṣūṣ, p. 317.

33. According to al-Jāḥiẓ, he belonged to the Banū Makhzūm of the Banū Qutay’ ah b. ’Abs. (K. al-ḥayawān, Vol. IV, p. 476). While some accounts place his tribe of the Ṭā’y in central Arabia - Gril points out that this is also the tribe from which Ibn Arabī himself is descended (Arbre, p.22, n. 11) - other accounts, such as Jâmī’s Naqd al-nusüs, place him in Aden (see Chittick, “Ibn Arabī’s Own Summary of the Fuṣüṣ”, p. 87). Gril also remarks that ṣakhr was the name of one of the factions of that tribe.

34. Other Arab prophets such as Ḥūd, Sāliḥ, and Shu’ayb, were also sent to the peoples of the Arabian peninsula, but they did not bring with them a divine law for their community.

35. The word “fatra” is also applied to a condition of stagnation in an individual. It is that time known to prophets and saints - indeed to artists and scholars as well -when the fire of inspiration cools and the well runs dry.

36. Some accounts place him before Jesus. See Afīfī, Fuṣüṣ, p. 317.

37. Note that the chapter devoted to Khālid in the Fuṣüṣ is the only one in which no Qur’anic verses or hadith are cited.

38. Fukūk, p.307.

39. Chittick, “Ibn ‘Arabī’s Own Summary of the Fuṣüṣ”, pp. 86-7.

40. Some place this incident in the lava fields near Yathrib (= Medina).

41. ‘Afīfī, Fuṣüṣ, p. 317.

42. Chittick, “Ibn ‘Arabī’s Own Summary of the Fuṣüṣ”, p. 87.

43. Ibid., p. 87.

44. See Muḥāḍarāt al-abrār wa-musāmarāt al-aḥyār, p. 105.

45. In some accounts, he threw himself into the fire. See Pellat, s.v. Khālid b. ṣinān, Encylopaedia of Islam, revised edition (hereafter El 2).

46. Muhādarāt al-abrār,pp. 104-5.

47. Afīfī, Fusûs, p. 317.

48. The account in the Fuṣüṣ draws from the story of Hanzalah b. Safwān. See Elmore, Islamic Sainthood, p. 191, n. 167.

49. As Ibn ‘Arabī says regarding the disputed nature of the barzakh, its people alter in state there just as they do here. See Fut. III. 395.

50. Ismail Hakki Bursevi’s Translation and Commentary, Vol. 4, p. 1047.

51. Ibid, p. 1049.

52. See Ibn ‘Arabī’s treatise al-Fanâ’ fī al-mushāhada; English trans. Hirtenstein and Shamash, JMIAS, IX (1991); French trans. Vâlsân, Études Traditionnelles, 363 and 364 (1961). See also Fut., Chaps 220, 221, and 286.

53. From the same root as ittiṣāl (conjunction).

54. Fut. I. 251, Chap. 45.

55. ‘Abd al-Bāqī Miftāḥ has provided many of the clues enumerated below concerning the name Khālid as well as other interesting information regarding this figure in his Mafātīḥ Fuṣüṣ al-ḥikam, pp. 135-8.

56. Elmore, Islamic Sainthood, p. 193, n. 180.

57. The name Khālid also appears in Ibn ‘Arabī’s K. al-’abādila, pp. 168-9, where it is linked with the attribute of generosity. See Gril, Arbre, p. 23, n. 15.

58. Gril, Arbre, p.22.

59. Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 2, p. 784, s.v. Khlid.

60. Stetkevych, “Toward an Arabic Lexicon”, p. 101.

61. Ibid, pp.93, 108.

62. Ibid., p. 101.

63. Ibid.

64. For example Q.20:76; 25:15.

65. Stetkevych, “Toward an Arabic Lexicon”, p. 102.

66. Gilis (Livre des Chatons, p. 681) has suggested an intriguing connection between the other meaning of jānn, a great serpent, and Khālid, translating the phrase in question as “Serpent son of Jānn”. He points out parallels between Moses’ staff, which turns into a serpent in his contest with Pharaoh’s magicians and splits the rock from which issue twelve streams of water (as mentioned by Ibn ‘Arabī in his final poem), and Khālid’s staff, with which he beats back the fire into the cave. If this “fire” is either a serpent/jinnī or an ’anqā’, as some accounts have it, the Khālid legend becomes even more complex.

67. Beneito and Twinch, Contemplation of the Holy Mysteries, p. 74.

68. Ibid., pp. 75-6.

69. ṣamad is also mentioned in the Fuṣūṣ in connection with the prophet Aaron: “He is summoning to a God who is eternally resorted to, universally known, but not seen. … The eyes cannot see Him, just as they cannot see the spirits that govern their shapes and outer forms” (Fuṣūṣ; trans. Austin, Bezels of Wisdom, p. 248).

70. Fukūk, p. 307. See also Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 4, p. 1726, s.v. ṣamad, for this sense of the word.

71. Fuṣūṣ, I. 213. Austin’s English translation (Bezels of Wisdom, p.268) does not preserve the meaning of ajr as “reward”, which is essential to the legal discussion that follows. In addition, to translate both umniyya and maṭlūb as “wish” obscures the distinction between them. Dagli’s new English translation (Ringstones of Wisdom, p. 276) maintains this distinction; he translates ajr as “reward”, umniyya as “hope” and maṭbūl as “sought after thing”.

72. This is an issue debated in iqh, of which Ibn Arabī himself gives two examples: the person who makes the effort to attend the congregational prayer, but misses it, and the person of limited means who would like to perform the good deeds that the wealthy are able to perform but cannot because of his poverty. In both these cases, the reward for intending and accomplishing is said to be the same.

73. Fuṣūṣ, I. 214. Cf. Austin, Bezels of Wisdom, p.268.

74. See Ismail Hakki Bursevi’s Translation and Commentary, Vol. 4, pp. 1049-50, for further illumination of this point. His conclusion is: “there is no equality between the two deserts of intention and action … because had there been equality [Khālid] would have been satisfied with desiring.”

75. Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 4, p. 1727, s.v. ṣamda.

76. ṣadr al-Dīn Qūnāwī includes this meaning of “recourse” and “aim” in his brief discussion of ṣamad in the Khālid chapter. See Fukūk, p. 307.

77. Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 2, p. 784, s.v. khālid.

78. See Anqā’ mughrib, trans. Elmore, Islamic Sainthood, p.442; Fut. I, Chap. 71: On Fasting. Ibn ‘Arabī speaks also of the ṣamadāniyya retreat, most appropriately undertaken during the month of Ramadan, in his K. al-khalwa al-muṭlaqa, currently being edited and translated by Stephen Hirtenstein. This thirty-day retreat consists of fasting and nightly vigil.

79. Ḥilyat al-abdāl; French trans. Vālsan, Parure des abdāl, p. 34.

80. In addition to the sources mentioned above, see also Rauf, Addresses, pp. 52-6.

81. Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 1, p. 187, s.v. barzakh.

82. For an extended study of the barzakh in Ibn ‘Arabī’s thought, see Bashier, Ibn al-’Arabī’s Barzakh.

83. Chittick, SPK, p. 14.

84. Ibid. This, in Ibn ‘Arabī’s terms, is called “non-delimited imagination” (al-khayāl al-mutlaq), the Supreme Barzakh (al-barzakh al-a’ la) or the Barzakh of Barzakhs (barzakh al-barāzikh). It is also called (although they are not exact synonyms): the Cloud, the Breath of the All-Merciful, the Real through whom creation takes place, the Universal Reality, Nature, and the Reality of the Perfect Human Being.

85. Fut. III. 46, Chap. 312; trans. Chittick, SPK, p. 204.

86. The dyadic and triadic structure of existence is discussed by Ibn ‘Arabī in many places. See, for example, Fuṣūṣ, Chap, on Sāliḥ and Chap, on Muḥammad.

87. See Fut. II. 391.

88. Corbin, Spiritual Body, p. 79.

89. Fut. I. 304, Chap. 6; trans. Chittick, SPK, p. 118.

90. As Ibn ‘Arabī defines this emphatic particle in Fut. II 130, Chap. 73 : “If you ask: What is inniyyda, we answer: It is the Reality by way of attribution. [The people of inniyya] are those who are engaged with the Tablet, witnessing the Pen, observing the Nūn, drawing [the ink] from the Ipseity, speaking with anniyya [the personal pronoun “I"], expressing themselves with unification (Ittiḥād).

91. For a discussion of this term in Persian poetry, see Schimmel, Two-Colored Brocade, p.44.

92. See al-Niffarī’s Mawāqif and Mukhāṭabāt.

93. For these technical terms, so vital in understanding Ibn ‘Arabī’s ideas concerning the possibility of union between the Real and the servant, see Fut. II, Chaps 220 and 221 and his short treatise Kitāb al-fanā’ fī al-mushāhada (Arabie, pp. 11-18; French trans., see especially pp. 40-1 and Vālsan’s commentary, especially pp. 27-33; English trans, p. 6, and Hirtenstein and Shamash’s notes, p. 15, n.ll).

94. These are the prophets traditionally encountered in the mystical ascent. See Fut. II, Chap. 167, Fut. Ill, Chap. 367; Kitāb al-isfār; and Risālat al-anwār, in which the prophets are not mentioned but merely suggested (see Chodkiewicz’s excellent commentary concerning this, Seal of the Saints, pp. 147-73).

95. Gril, Arbre, p. 11.

96. Q.53:14-16.

97. Fut. II 31, Chap. 73.

98. See Eliade, Sacred and Profane, especially pp. 32-42, for a discussion of the symbolism of the central pole or cosmic tree. See also Philpot, Sacred Tree.

99. See Ibn Hanbal, Musnad III, 71. According to some traditions, the Ṭūbā tree is situated at the top of Mount Qāf, is associated in some way with Mount Sinai, and is made of green light. Its height is said to reach the sun. See Gloton, L’Arbre du monde, p. 132.

100. See Fut. III. 3; III. 214; III. 554.

101. See, in particular, his extensive discussion of the Ṭūbā tree in Fut. III. 433, Chap. 371.

102. See Fut. III. 137ff, Chap. 336.

103. See Jeffery, “Ibn ‘Arabī’s Shajarat al-kawn”; Gloton, L’Arbre du monde. According to Chodkiewicz (Ocean without Shore, pp. 143-4, n. 13), the recent research of Y. A. Mdaghri has shown this work to be by ‘Abd al-Salām b. Aḥmad b. Ghānim al-Maqdisī (d. 1280).

104. Note that in Fut. III. 315 the boughs of the tree of existence represent the Divine Names, and its fruit represents human beings.

105. Jung, Psychology and Alchemy, p. 183.

106. See Eliade, Sacred and Profane, Chap. 1; Eliade, Images and Symbols, Chap. 1.

107. Q. 14:24.

108. See Q.4:65. Ibn ‘Arabī’s chapter on Shu’ayb in the Fuṣūṣ is particularly eloquent on this theme. Shu’ayb’s name suggests branching (tasha’ub), hence the chapter concentrates on the ability of the fluctuating heart of the believer both to embrace its Lord in every aspect and to accommodate any form of belief.

109. Fut. III 137, Chap. 336.

110. “The Real can only be embraced by the heart.” Fut. I. 289, Chap. 58; trans. Chittick, SPK, p. 112.

111. See Tarjumān, Poem XI

112. Fut. II 130, Chap. 73, Question 153.

113. See Ibn Ḥazm, Ṭawq al-ḥamāma.

114. Schimmel, Two-Colored Brocade, p. 184.

115. Tarjumān, p. 73.

116. Tarjumān, pp. 18 (Arabic), 64; Sells, Stations of Desire, p. 67; Giese, Ibn ‘Arabī: Urwolke und Welt, p.240.

117. Stetkevych, “Toward an Arabic Lexicon”, pp. 103-4.

118. Tarjumān, pp.33 (Arabic), 112, 116 (commentary).

119. Ibid., p. 116. The sound described here is a reference to the sound accompanying the descent of prophecy that the Prophet found most unendurable.

120. Ibid., p. 73. See also Sells, Stations of Desire, p. 105, and Giese, Ibn ‘Arahī, p. 253.

121. See Tarjumān, p. 73, commentary on Poem XIII.

122. For the Ringdove as Universal Soul in Ibn ‘Arabī’s poetry, see Tarjumān, p. 64, commentary on Poem IX.

123. See Fut. II 427, Chap. 198, section 12.

124. On raqā’iq and their relation to “faces” see Fut. III. 260, Chap. 357:



Between these high celestial forms and the low elemental forms extend tenuities (raqā’iq) that belong to the divine names and the lordly realities. These are the specific faces belonging to each possible thing that has proceeded from Him - from the word Be through the divine face-turning (tawajjuh) of desire. The occasioned thing does not know the specific face belonging to anything else, even though he has a specific face in himself, whether or not he knows it. From this face everything is poor toward God, not toward its engendered occasion (sabab). This is the divine occasion that is nearer than the engendered occasion, for the engendered occasion is separate from the creature, but this occasion is qualified neither by separation from it nor by a proximate joining, even if, in the case of the human being it is nearer than the jugular vein (Q.50:16) - so its nearness is nearer than that. Trans. Chittick, SDG, p. 143. See also Fut. III. 28ff., Chap. 307, where the raqā’iq are described as forming a cosmic chain, or ladder, of reciprocal interactions, stemming from God to Intellect to Soul and beyond.

125. See Fut. 1.428.

126. See Fut. I, Chap. 7.

127. See Fut. I, Chap. 11.

128. Fut. I. 140, Chap. 11.

129. See ’Uqlat al-mustawfiz, p.56.

130. See Fut. I, Chap. 11.

131. Gril, Arbre, p. 13.

132. Ibid., p. 14. This is best explained by the Shaykh in his chapter on Muḥammad in the Fuṣūṣ.

133. Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 1, p.360, s.v. mathnā.

134. Steingass, Persian English Dictionary, p. 1172.

135. Fut. II 130, Chap. 73, Question 153.

136. Jung, Psychology and Alchemy, p. 202.

137. According to a similar hadith: “The first thing that God created was the Pen.”

138. See Fai. 1.293.

139. See Fut. II 66-7, Chap. 73, Question 39.

140. Fut. I. 92, Chap. 3.

141. Fut. II 130, Chap. 73, Question 153.

142. Al-Iṣṭilāhāt,p.310.

143. Kopf, “The Bird ‘Anūq”, p. 125. For other descriptions of the ’anqā’ under its various guises as phoenix, gryphon, and so forth, see Elmore, Islamic Sainthood, pp. 184-5.

144. Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 5, p. 2177, s.v. a’naq.

145. Kopf, “The Bird ‘Anūq”, p. 125.

146. Schimmel, Two-Colored Brocade, p. 188.

147. Ibid.

148. See Ernst, “The Symbolism of Birds and Flight”, p. 366.

149. Jung, Psychology and Alchemy, p. 202.

150. Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 5, p. 2177, s.v. a’naq.

151. Ibid.

152. Kopf, “The Bird ‘Anūq”, p. 129.

153. Lane, Arabic-English Lexicon, Part 5, p.2177, s.v. a’naq.

154. Another reference to the story of Khālid and the fiery ’Anqā’ may be found in Ibn Arabī’s Anqā’ mughrib. See Elmore, Islamic Sainthood, pp. 481-2.

155. Aṭṭār, Mantiq al-ṭayr, pp. 66-7.

156. The Greek philosophers discussed prime matter extensively, basing their doctrines on Aristotle’s writings on material cause, Plato’s notions of the receptacle, or a combination of the two. It is primarily this hybrid doctrine that penetrated the Islamic milieu through the late Hellenistic Neoplatonic commentary tradition.

157. See Fut. I. 122, Chap. 7. “It was scattered dust” (Q.56:6).

158. See Fut. I. 119, Chap. 6. For Sahl, the Muḥammadan Light was akin to habā’ in that it was shaped by God from His own Light. See Böwering, Mystical Vision of Existence, p. 150.

159. See Kraus, Jābir ibn Ḥayyān, p. 142 and his long note concerning habā’ on p. 154, n. 6.

160. See also Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theologiae la.76.7; Summa contra Gentiles I, Chap. 43; II, Chap. 96; III, Chap. 6.

161. Rasā’il, II, p. 6.

162. Universal Reality is synonymous with Reality of Realities (ḥaqīqatal-ḥaqa’iq). For more on the relationship between these terms and the ’Anqā’, see below, p. 107.

163. Fut. I. 119, Chap. 6.

164. Fut. I. 119, Chap. 6; trans. Chodkiewicz, Seal of the Saints, p. 68.

165. Fut. I. 122, Chap. 7.

166. Fut. II. 432, Chap. 198, Section 14; trans. Chittick, SPK, p. 139.

167. Fuṣūṣ, I. 113; Austin, Bezels of Wisdom, p. 137.

168. Tarjumān, pp. 19 (Arabic), 67.

169. Trans. Elmore (slightly altered), Islamic Sainthood, pp. 614-15. He bases his trans, on the 1855 edn. of the Dīwān.

170. It is not by mere chance that the poems of the ’Anqā’ and the Tree are equal in length. The author wants to draw our attention to the Anqā"s similarity to the Tree as Perfect Human Being.

171. For more on the Anqā’, see Elmore, Islamic Sainthood, pp. 184-95.

172. Fut. II 130, Chap. 73, Question 153.

173. Jung, Philosophy and Alchemy, p. 134.

174. Ibid, p.230.

175. See ibid, pp.87, 236.

176. ’Uqlat al-mustawfiz, p. 57.

177. Schimmel, Triumphal Sun, p. 118.

178. For more on the raven in Arabic literature, see Stetkevych, Muḥammad and the Golden Bough, p. 117-18, n. 11.

179. Trans. Sells, Stations of Desire, p. 114. Nicholson gives a more prosaic English trans., Tarjumān, pp.21 (Arabic), 76.

180. The designation of Universal Body as “second matter” in Arabic philosophy can be found in the Rasā’il of the Ikhwān al-ṣafā’ (Vol. Ill, p. 187): “The First Hyle receives measurements, which are length, width, and depth, and with that it becomes the Absolute Body, which is the Second Hyle.”

181. Philosophical discussions concerning first and second matter began early in Greek philosophy, probably in response to Stoic ideas concerning matter, and lasted well into the Hellenistic period. See de Haas, John Philoponus’ New Definition. The Arabic philosophers continued the debate, formulating their own opposing notions. See Hyman, “Aristotle’s ‘First Matter’ and Avicenna’s and Averroes’ ‘Corporeal Form’”.

182. See Ikhwān al-ṣafā’, Rasā’il, II, p. 6. See also Nasr, Islamic Cosmological Doctrines, pp. 58-9.

183. Murata, Tao of Islam, p. 156.

184. ’Uqlatal-mustawfiz, pp.56-7.

185. As Corbin points out (Temple and Contemplation, p. 216), the circular form should be conceived in terms of function rather than of geometrical shape.

186. Fut. II 433, Chap. 198, Section 14.

187. Fut. II 150, Chap. 78. See also Fuṣūṣ, Chap, on Joseph, for the description of the cosmos in its latent form as “shadow” and its relation to the Imagination.

188. Fut. II 151, Chap. 78.

189. Khulla (intimate friendship) and khalā’ (void) are not derived from the same root, but Ibn ‘Arab! often makes use of assonant words to draw startling parallels.

190. Fuṣūṣ, p.81; trans. Austin, Bezels of Wisdom, p.92.

191. Fut. II 618, Chap. 282; trans. Chittick, SPK, p.235.

192. Corbin, Temple and Contemplation, p. 231.

193. Note also the connection between the Name “the Last” (al-Ākhir) and the next or “last” world (al-ākhira). Many of the secrets of the Crow - archetypal harbinger of death - have to do with the fate of the body after death. In this he is very like the man whose secret he conceals.

194. See Fut. II 647.

195. For a masterful treatment of this theme in Islamic philosophy, see Murata, Tao of Islam, especially Chap. 5 (Macrocosmic Marriage).

196. See Fut. II 656, Chap. 292.

197. Fut. I. 139, Chap. 11.

198. Fut. I. 138, Chap. 11.

199. See especially Fut. I, Chaps 11 and 21.

200. Fut. I. 138, Chap. 11; trans. Murata, Tao of Islam, p. 145.

201. See Fut. I. 139.

202. Fut. I. 261, Chap. 47.

203. Fut. I. 140, Chap. 11; trans. Murata, Tao of Islam, pp. 156-7, modified.

204. Fut. III. 420, Chap. 371; trans. Chittick, SPK, p. 140.

205. Ibid.; trans. Chittick, SPK, p. 140, modified.

206. Ibid.; trans. Chittick, SPK, p. 140.

207. Fuṣūṣ, p.219; trans. Austin, Bezels of Wisdom, p.277.

208. Fut. II. 63, Chap. 73, Question 31; trans. Chittick, SPK, p. 137.

209. Inshā’ al-dawā’ir, p. 18.

210. Ibid., p. 21.

211. Fuṣūṣ, p.220; trans. Austin, p.278.

212. Dīwān al-Ḥallāj, p. 125. See French trans. byMassignon, Ḥusayn Manṣūr al-Ḥallāj, p. 54.

213. See Ibn ‘Arabī’s reference to this poem in Fut. II 656, Chap. 292. Henry Corbin has discussed the perplexing line: “My mother has given birth to her father” in Creative Imagination, pp. 169-70. He also notes that the appellation of the Prophet’s daughter Fātima as “mother of her father” (umm abīha) - an appellation attributed in Shi ’ ite sources to the Prophet himself - is an indication of the “ Creative Feminine” alluded to in al-Ḥallāj’s poem (see Creative Imagination, p. 345, n.65; p. 347, n. 70).





APPENDIX

____________


The Edition of the Text

Ibn ‘Arabī mentions the Ittiḥād al–kawnī once in his Futūhāt (II.351), as well as in two bibliographical works, the Fihrist and the Ijāza. Osman Yahia lists twenty–three manuscripts,1 all conserved in the libraries of Istanbul. Denis Gril consulted ten manuscripts, two of which (nos. 5 and 8 below) were not mentioned by Osman Yahia, to establish the text. They are:





1. Shehit AḤ 2813 / no. 6 (fols. 26-33b), copied in AH 621

Part of a collection of nine surviving treatises by Ibn ‘Arabī, copied by one of his disciples, Ayyūb b. Badr b. Manṣūr al–Muqrī (or al–Maqqarī), in the presence of the author. The beginning of the Treatise bears a samā’ in the hand of the copyist, also apparently describing the work as Risālat al–aḥadiyya. At the bottom of the page in his Andalusī script, Ibn ‘Arabī has appended an attestation of its accuracy:

ṣaḥḥa mā dhakarahu a‘lahu wa–kataba al–munshī’fī tārikhihi (the above–mentioned is correct, as written by the author on this date)



This copy, certified by the author, constitutes the base manuscript. Some of its readings, however, remain tentative because of damage to the page margins and the copyist’s highly cursive script.





2. Veliyuddin 51 / no. 6 (fols. 48-56), copied in AH 736

Part of a collection of seventeen treatises of Ibn ‘Arabī, copied by Aḥmad b. Muḥammad b. Muthabbit in Jerusalem, who claims to have taken it from an autograph copy, transmitted by ‘Abdallāh Badr al–Ḥabashī, Ibn ‘Arabī’s beloved disciple, who died around 618. The original manuscript, therefore, would antedate no. 1.





3. Beyazit 3750 / no. 18 (fols. 277-286), copied in AH 782

Part of a collection of thirty treatises by Ibn ‘Arabī (excluding no. 12), taken from a copy in the hand of Shaykh Badr al–Dīn Muḥammad al–Zāhidī in Aleppo. Contains some variants tracing back to an original that is probably different from nos. 1 and 2.





4. Murad Bukhari 207 / no. 5 (fols. 71-95), copied in AH 875

Part of a collection of six treatises by Ibn ‘Arabī, copied by Jamāl al–Dīn Abdāllāh b. Ibrāhīm from an original copy apparently in the author’s hand, which was read back to him and certified by him as correct. Derives from no. 1.





5. Laleli 3741 / no. 6 (fols. 113-122b), copied in AH 904

Evidently derived from no. 1.





6. Carullah 2111 / no. 10 (fols. 63-69b), copied in AH 915

Part of a collection of twenty–three treatises, nineteen of which are by Ibn ‘Arabī, copied by ‘Abd al–Ṣamad al–ṣāliḥī al–Hanafī al–ṣūfī. Numbers 7, 8, and 9 seem to derive from this copy.





7. Fatih 5322 / no. 19 (fols. 151-153b), copied in c. AH 934

Part of a collection of thirty separate works, mostly treatises by Ibn ‘Arabī, some of which are commented on by Ibn Sawdakīn. The poetry at the beginning is missing. It offers some variants similar to those in nos. 1 and 4.





8. Haci Mahmud 2510 /no. 1 (fols. lb-16b), copied in AH 958

Part of a collection of two treatises by Ibn ‘Arabī; bears similarities to no. 5.





9. Halet Efendi 245 / no. 17 (fols. 353b-366), copied after AH 936

Part of a collection of twenty–six treatises, mostly by Ibn ‘Arabī; bears similarities to no. 5.





10. Esad Efendi 1777 /no. 9 (fols. 158-172b), copied in AH 1004

Part of a collection of eleven treatises attributed to Ibn ‘Arabī, some of which are apocryphal. Copy is very defective, and derives from no. 2.





There appear, then, to be three families of manuscripts whose transmission cannot be traced with precision. In the Arabic edition, all variants have been provided.


1. Histoire et classification, Vol. I. p. 325, no. 317.





BIBLIOGRAPHY


Addas, Claude. Quest for the Red Sulphur: The Life of Ibn Arabi. Translated by P. Kingsley. Cambridge: Islamic Texts Society, 1993.

Affīfī, A. E. (ed.). FuṢūṢ al–hikam. See under Ibn ‘Arabī.

Arberry, A. J. (trans.). The Ring of the Dove. London: Luzac, 1953, reprinted 1994. Translation of Ibn ḥazm’s Ṭawq al–ḥamâma.

Aṭṭār, Farīduddīn. Manṭiq al–ṭayr. Translated by C. S. Nott, from French translation of G. de Tassy, as The Conference of the Birds. Boulder: Shambhala, 1971.

Austin, Ralph (trans.). Ibn al–Arabtī: The Bezels of Wisdom. Translation of FuṢūs al–ḥikam. New York: Paulist Press, 1980.

Austin, Ralph. Sufis of Andalusia. 1971. Reprinted Sherborne, Glos: Beshara Publications, 1988. Partial translation of Rūḥ al–quds and al- Durra al–fḥkhira.

Austin, Ralph. “The Lady Niẓām -An Image of Love and Knowledge”, JM1AS, VII (1988), 35-48.

Bashier, Salman H. Ibn al–Arabīs Barzakh: The Concept of the Limit and the Relationship between God and the World.Albany, NY: SUNY Press, 2004.

Bayrak, Tosun, and Rabia Terri Harris. What the Seeker Needs. Putney, VT: Threshold Books, 1992. Translation of al–IṢtīlâḥât al–Ṣūfiyya.

Beneito, Pablo, and Souad al–Ḥakīm. Lās Contemplaciones de los Misterios. Madrid: Editora Regional de Murcia, 1994. Translation of al–Mashâhid al–qudsiyya.

Böwering, Gerhard. The Mystical Vision of Existence in Classical Islam. Berlin: De Gruyter, 1979.

Bursevi, Ismail Hakki. Ismail Hakki Bursevi’s Translation of and Commentary on Fusus al–Hikam by Muhyiddīn Ibn ‘Arabi, Vol. 4. Rendered into English by B. Rauf. Oxford: Muhyiddīn Ibn ‘Arabī Society, 1991.

Chittick, William C. “Ibn ‘Arabīs Own Summary of the FuṢūṢ: ’The Imprint of the Bezels of Wisdom’”. JMIAS, I (1982), 30-93. Partial translation of Jāml’s Naqd al–nuṢûṢ ft sharḥ naqsh al–fuṢûṢ.

Chittick, William C. “The Chapter Headings of the FuṢūṢ. JMIAS, II (1984), 41-93.

Chittick, William C. The Self–Disclosure of God: Principles of Ibn al-’Arabī ’s Cosmology. Albany, NY: SUNY Press, 1998.

Chittick, William C. The Sufi Path of Knowledge: ībn al–Arabts Metaphysics of Imagination. Albany, NY: SUNY Press, 1989.

Chodkiewicz, Michel. An Ocean without Shore: ībn ‘Arabī, the Book and the Lāw. Translated by D. Streight. Albany, NY SUNY Press, 1993.

Chodkiewicz, Michel. Seal of the Saints: Prophethood and Sainthood in the Doctrine of Ibn ‘Arabī. Translated by L. Sherrard. Cambridge: Islamic Texts Society, 1993.

Chodkiewicz, Michel (ed.). The Meccan Revelations, Vol. 1. New York: Pir Press, 2002.

Corbin, Henry. Avicenna and the Visionary Recital. Translated W R. Trask. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1960. Reprinted Spring Publications, Irving, TX, 1980.

Corbin, Henry. Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn ‘Arabī. Translated by R. Mannheim. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1969.

Corbin, Henry. Cyclical Time and lsmaili Gnosis. London: Kegan Paul, 1983.

Corbin, Henry. Spiritual Body and Celestial Earth. Translated by N. Pearson. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1977.

Corbin, Henry. Temple and Contemplation. Translated by P. Sherrard, with the assistance of Liadain Sherrard. London: KPI, 1986. Couliano, loan Petru. Out of this World: Other Worldly Journeys from Gilgamesh to Albert Einstein. Boston: Shambhala, 1991.

Culianu, loan Petru. Psychanodia I. Leiden: Brill, 1983.

Dagli, Caner K. ībn al–‘Arabī: The Ringstones of Wisdom. Translation of EuṢūṢ al–ḥikam. Chicago: Great Books of the Islamic World, 2004.

Eliade, Mircea. Images and Symbols. New York: Sheed & Ward, 1961.

Eliade, Mircea. The Sacred and the Profane. New York: Harcourt, Brace & World, 1959.

Elmore, Gerald. Islamic Sainthood in the Fullness of Time: ībn ‘Arabīs Book of the FAbūlous Gryphon. Leiden: Brill, 1998. Translation of ‘Anqā’ mughrib.

Ernst, Carl W “The Symbolism of Birds and Flight in the Writings of Rūzbihān Baqlī”. In The Heritage of Sufism: The Legacy of Medieval Persian Sufism (1150-1500), Vol. 2, edited by L. Lewisohn, pp. 353-66. Oxford: Oneworld, 1999. (Originally published 1992.)

Fenton, Paul, and Maurice Gloton. Lā Production des cercles. Translation of Inshâ’ al–daivâ’ir. Paris: Éditions de l’Éclat, 1996.

Fenton, Paul, and Maurice Gloton. “The Book of the Description of the Encompassing Circles”. In Muhyiddīn Ibn ‘Arabî: A Commemorative Volume, edited by S. Hirtenstein and M. Tiernan, pp. 12-43. Shaftes–bury, Dorset: Element, 1993. Translation of lnshâ’ al–dawâ’ir.

Giese, Alma. Ibn ‘Arabī: Urivolke und Welt. Munich: Verlag C. H. Beck, 2002.

Al–Ghorab, Maḥmud. “Muhyiddīn Ibn al-’Arabī Amidst Religions and Schools of Thought”. In Muhyiddīn Ibn ‘Arabī: A Commemorative Volume, edited by S. Hirtenstein and M. Tiernan, pp. 200-27. Shaftes–bury, Dorset: Element, 1993.

Gilis, Charles–André, ḥe Livre des chatons des sagesses, 2 vols. Beirut: Dar al–Bouraq, 1997-98. Translation of FuṢūṢ al–ḥikam.

Gloton, Maurice. Lārbre du monde. Paris: Les Deux Océans, 1982.

Gril, Denis. Le Dévoilement des effets du voyage. Paris: Éditions de l’Éclat, 1994. Translation of K. al–isfār.

Gril, Denis. Le Livre de l’arbre et des quatre oiseaux. Paris: Les Deux Océans, 1984. Translation of R. al–ittiḥâd al–kawnî.

Gril, Denis. “Le Livre de l’arbre et des quatre oiseaux (Risâlat al–ittiḥâd al–kawni)”. Annales Islamologiques, 17 (1981), 53-86.

de Haas, Frans A. J. John Philoponus’ New Definition of Prime Matter: Aspects of Its Background in Neoplatonism and the Ancient Commentary Tradition, Leiden: Brill, 1997.

Al–Ḥakīm, Souad. Al–Mu ‘jam al–sṢfī. Beirut: Dandara, 1981.

Al–Ḥallāj, al–Ḥusayn b. Mansūr. Diwān al–Ḥallâj. Beirut: Dār al–Kutub al-‘Ilmiyya, 1998.

Harris, Rabia Terri. Journey to the Lord of Poiver. New York: Inner Traditions, 1981. Translation of R. al–anwâr.

Hirtenstein, Stephen. The Unlimited Mercifier: the Spiritual Life and Thought of Ibn ‘Arabī. Oxford: Anqa Publishing, 1999.

Hirtenstein, Stephen. “The Brotherhood of Milk: Perspectives of Knowledge in the Adamic Clay,” JMIAS, XXXIII (2003), 1-21.

Hirtenstein, Stephen, and Layla Shamash. “Kitâb al–fanâ’ fî-l mushâhada”. JMIAS, IX (1991), 1-17.

Hirtenstein, Stephen, and Martin Notcutt. Divine Sayings: The Mishkât al–anwâr of Ibn ‘Arabī. Oxford: Anqa Publishing, 2004.

Hoyland, Robert G. Arabia and the Arabs. London: Routledge, 2001.

Hyman, Arthur. “Aristotle’s ’First Matter’ and Avicenna’s and Averroes’ ’Corporeal Form’”. In Harry Austryn Wolfson Jubilee Volume on the Occasion of His Seventy–Fifth Birthday, Vol. 1, edited by A. Hyman and S. Lieberman, pp. 385-406. Jerusalem: American Academy for Jewish Research, 1965.

Ibn ‘Arabi, Muḥyiddīn. K. al-‘abādila. Cairo, 1969.

Ibn ‘Arabī. ’Anqā’ mughrib. For English translation, see Elmore, Islamic Sainthood.

Ibn ‘Arabī. R. al–anivār. In Rasā’il Ibn ‘Arabī, Vol. 1, pp. 179-94. For English translation, see Harris, Journey to the Lord of Power. For German translation, see Radtke, Neue kritische Gānge.

Ibn ‘Arabī. Al–Durra al–fâkhira. For partial English translation, see Austin, Sufis of Andalusia.

Ibn ‘‘Arabī. K. al–fanā’ fī al–mushāhada. In Rasā’il Ibn ‘Arabī, Vol. 1, pp. 9-18. For English translation, see Hirtenstein and Shamash. For French translation, see Vâlsan, “Le Livre de l’extinction dans la contemplation”.

Ibn ‘Arabī. FuṢūṢ al–ḥikam. Edited by A. Afîfī. Teheran: Intishārāt al–Zahrā, n.d. (Reprint of Beirut 1946 edition.) For English translations, see Austin, Ibn al ‘Arabī: The Bezels of Wisdom; Bursevi, Ismail Hakki Bursevi’s Translation of and Commentary on Fusus al–Hikam; Dagli, Ibn al-‘Arabī: The Ringstones of Wisdom. For French translation, see Gilis, Le Livre des chatons des sagesses.

Ibn ‘Arabī. Al–Futūḥāt al–Makkiyya. Edited by O. Yahya. Cairo: Al–Hay’a al–MiṢriyya al–Amma li-1-kitāb, 1977-. Ibn ‘Arabī. Al–Futūḥāt al–Makkiyya, 4 vols. Reprinted Beirut: Dar Sādir, n.d.

Ibn ‘Arabī. Ḥilyat al–abdal. In Rasâ’il Ibn ‘Arabī, Vol. 2, pp. 271-80. For French translation, see Vâlsan, Lā Parure des abdal.

Ibn ‘‘Arabī. Inshā” al–daivâ’ir. For French translation, see Fenton and Gloton, Lā Production des cercles. For English translation, see Fenton and Gloton, “The Book of the Description of the Encompassing Circles”.

Ibn ‘‘Arabī. K. al–isfār. For French translation, see Gril, Le Dévoilement.

Ibn ‘Arabī. Al–IṢṭīlāḥ al–sûfiyya. In Rasa’il Ibn ‘Arabī, Vol. 2, pp. 301-16. For English translation, see Bayrak and Harris, What the Seeker Needs. Ibn ‘Arabī. R. al–ittihâd al–kawnī. Edited by D. Gril. Annales Islamologiques 17, 1981, pp. 53-86. For French translation, see Gril, Le Livre de l’arbre.

Ibn ‘Arabī. Muḥâḍarât al–abrâr t?a musâmarât al–aḥyâr, Part I. Edited by M. al–Namarī. Beirut: Dār al–Kutub al-’Ilmiyya, 2001.

Ibn ‘‘Arabī. Al–Masâ’ il. In Rasâ’il lbn ‘Arabî, Vol. 2, pp. 143-70.

Ibn ‘Arabī. Al–Mashâhid al–qudsiyya. For French translation, see Ruspoli, Le Livre des contemplations divines. For Spanish translation, see Beneito and al–Ḥakīm, Lās Contemplaciones de los misterios. For English translation, see Twinch and Beneito, Contemplation of the Holy Mysteries.

Ibn ‘‘Arabī. Mishkât al–anwâr. For English translation, see Hirtenstein and Notcutt, Divine Sayings.

Ibn ‘‘Arabī. Naqsh al–fuṢūṢ. In Rasâ’il lbn ‘‘Arabī, Vol. 2, pp.281-92. For English translation, see Chittick, “Ibn ‘Arabfs Own Summary of the FuṢūṢ”.

Ibn ‘‘Arabī. Rasâ’il lbn Arabī. Damascus, 1998. (Reprint of 1948 Hyderabad edn.)

Ibn ‘Arabī. Rūḥ al–quds. For partial English translation, see Austin, Sufis of Andalusia.

Ibn ‘‘Arabī. Tarjumân al–ashwâq. Edited and English translation by R. A. Nicholson, London: Theosophical Publishing House, 1911, reprinted 1978.

Ibn ‘Arabī. ‘Uqlat al–mustaivfiz. In Kleine Schriften des Ibn al–‘Arabī, edited by H. Nyberg. Leiden: Brill, 1919.

Ibn Ḥazm, Abū Muḥammad ‘Alī. Ṭawq al–ḥamâma. Edited Makkī, Cairo: Dār al–Ma‘ārif, 1980. For English translation, see Arberry, Ring of the Dove.

Ikhwān al–Safā’. Rasā’il ikhwân al–Ṣafâ’, II and III. Beirut: Dār Sāder, n.d.

Izutsu, Toshihiko. Sufism and Taoism: A Comparative Study of Key Philosophical Concepts. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1984.

Jaffray, Angela. Unveiling the Effects of the Voyages, forthcoming.

Al–Jāḥiz, ‘Amr b. Baḥr. K. al–ḥayaivân, Vol. IV, edited by ‘A. S. M. Hārūn, Cairo: Maktabat MuṢṭafā al–Bâbī al–Halabī, AH 1359.

Jamī, ‘Abd al–Raḥmān. Naqd al–nuṢūṣ ft shark naqsh al–fusûs. For partial English translation, see Chittick, “Ibn ‘Arabīs Own Summary of the FuṢūṢ”.

Jeffery, Arthur. “Ibn ‘Arabfs Shajarat al–kawn”. Studia Islamica, X (1959), 43-77, and XI (1959), 113-60.

Jung, Carl. Psychology and Alchemy. 2nd edn. Princeton: Princeton University Press, reprinted 1993.

Kopf, Lothar. “The Bird ‘Anūq”. In Studies in Arabic and Hebrew Lexicography, edited by M. H. Goshen–Gottstein, pp. 125-32. Jerusalem: Magnes Press, 1976.

Kraus, Paul. Jābir ihn Hayyân: contribution à l’histoire des idées scientifiques dans i’Islam. Paris: Les Belles Lettres, 1986.

Lane, Edward William. An Arabic–English Lexicon, in 8 parts. Reprinted Beirut: Librairie du Liban, 1968.

Massignon, Louis (trans.). Ḥusayn ManṢūr al–Ḥallâj : Diwān. Paris: Seuil, 1981.

Miftāh, ‘Abd al–Bāqī. Mafâtih fuṢūṢ al–ḥikam li–Ibn ‘Arabī. Marrakesh: Dār al–Qubba al–Zarqā, 1997.

Morris, James W. “The Spiritual Ascension: Ibn ‘Arabī and the Mi’rāj”. Journal of the American Oriental Society, 107 (1987), 629-52, and 108 (1988), 63-77.

Murata, Sachiko. The Tao of Islam. Albany, NY: SUNY Press, 1992.

Nasr, Seyyid Hossein. An Introduction to Islamic Cosmological Doctrines, revised edn. Boulder: Shambhala, 1978.

Nicholson, R. A. See Ibn ‘Arabī, Tarjumân al–ashwāq.

Al–Niffarī, ‘Abd al–Jabbār. The Mawāqif and Mukhâtabât of Muḥammad Ibn ‘Abdi’l–Jabbâr al–Niffarī. Edited and translated by Arthur J. Arberry. London: Gibb Memorial Trust, 1935. Reprinted 1978.

Pellat, Charles, s.v. “Khālid b. Sinān”. In Encyclopaedia of Islam. 2nd edn, edited by C. E. Bosworth, E. van Donzel, W. P. Heinrichs, and G. Lecomte, p. 928. Leiden: Brill, 1960-.

Philpot, J. H., The Sacred Tree in Religion and Myth. Mineola, NY: Dover, 2004.

Pickthall, Muḥammad Marmaduke (trans.) The Glorious Qur’an. Mecca: Muslim World League, 1977.

Qūnāwī, Sadr al–Dīn. Al–Fukūk. Teheran: Intishārāt Mawlā, n.d.

Radtke, Bernd. Neue kritische Gānge, Utrecht: Houtsma, 2005.

Rauf, Bulent. Addresses. Roberton, Scotland: Beshara Publications, 1986.

Ruspoli, Stéphane. Lālchimie du bonheur parfait. Paris: Berg International, 1981.

Ruspoli, Stéphane. Ibn ‘Arabī: le livre des contemplations divines.Paris: Sindbad, 1999. Edition and translation of Al–Mashâhid al–qudsiyya.

Al–Sarrāj, Abū Nasr. K. al–Luma‘. Edited by R. A. Nicholson. London: Luzac, 1914.

Schimmel, Annemarie. A Two–Colored Brocade. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1992.

Schimmel, Annemarie. As Through a Veil: Mystical Poetry in Islam. New York: Columbia University Press, 1980.

Schimmel, Annemarie. The Triumphal Sun. Albany, NY SUNY Press, 1993.

Sells, Michael. Early Islamic Mysticism. New York: Paulist Press, 1996.

Sells, Michael. Stations of Desire. Jerusalem: Ibis, 2000.

Steingass, Francis J. A Comprehensive Persian–English Dictionary. London: Routledge, 1988.

Stetkevych, Jaroslav. The Zephyrs of Najd: The Poetics of Nostalgia in the Classical Arabic Nas īb. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1993.

Stetkevych, Jaroslav. “Toward an Arabic Elegiac Lexicon: The Seven Words of the NasTb”. In Reorientations / Arabic and Persian Poetry, edited by S. Stetkevych, pp. 58-129. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1993.

Stetkevych, Jaroslav. Muḥammad and the Golden Bough: Reconstructing Arabian Myth. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1996.

Takeshita, Masataka. Ibn ‘Arabīs Theory of the Perfect Man and Its Place in the History of Islamic Thought. Tokyo: Institute for the Studies of Languages and Cultures of Asia and Africa, 1987.

Thackston, Wheeler (trans.). The Mystical and Visionary Treatises of Shihabuddin Yahya Suhrawardi. London: Octagon, 1982.

Twinch, Cecilia, and Pablo Beneito. Contemplation of the Holy Mysteries. Oxford: Anqa Publishing, 2001. Translation of al–Mashāhid al–qudsiyya.

Vālsan, Michel. “Le Livre de l’extinction dans la contemplation (Kitâbu–l-fanâ’ i fi–l-mushâhada)”. Études Traditionnelles 363 (1961), 26-44; 364 (1961), 89-98; 365 (1961), 144-50.

Vālsan, Michel. Lā Parure des abdâl. Paris: Les Editions de l’Oeuvre, 1992. Translation of Ḥilyat al–abdâl.

Wright, William. A Grammar of the Arabie Language, 2 vols. 3rd edn. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1967.

Yahia, Osman. Histoire et classification de l’oeuvre lbn ‘Arabī: Étude critique. Damascus: Institut Francais de Damas, 1964.

Yūsuf ‘Alīi, Abdullāh. The Meaning of the Glorious Qur’an, Vol. 2. Cairo: Dār al–Kitāb al–Masrī, 1938.





INDEX OF QUR’ANIC CITATIONS


2: 30 90

2: 60 27n, 72

2: 74 72

2: 275 25n

3: 40 38n

4: 51 45n

5: 31 98

7: 57–58 10

7: 60 27n

7: 160 72

7: 176 70

8: 17 55

12: 31 32n

13: 13 22n, 39

14: 24–25 81

14: 27 38n

16: 40 19

17: 60 81

18: 63 72

20: 54 48n

20: 128 48n

22: 18 38n

23: 108 50

24: 34 57

24: 35 48n, 57, 81

24: 40 48n

27: 10 26n

28: 10 50n



28: 31 26n

30: 15 50

31: 16 72

36: 80 81

37: 62 81

39: 67 43n, 48n

43: 70 50

44: 44 81

50: 16 58

53: 7 29n

53: 14 16

54: 10 30n

55: 17 40n

55: 54 36n

55: 76 29n, 32n

56: 29 37

56: 30 37

56: 33 35

56: 34 35

69: 17 43n

79: 10–11 33n

82: 7–8 27n

85: 13 47n

89: 9 72

95: 1–5 28n

95: 4 27n

95: 4–5 5

112: 1–2 72





INDEX OF NAMES AND TERMS


Aaron 33, 34n, 73n, 79

Abel 98

Abraham 13, 33, 34n, 57, 58, 79, 101

Abū al-’Abbās al-’Uryabī/’Uryanī 11, l1n

Abū al–Fawāris Sakhr ibn Sinān 5, 25, 26, 50n, 51, 63, 69-76; see also Khālid

AbūMadyan 12

Abū yā’qūb Yūsuf 9

Abū Yazīd al–Bistâmī 16, 17, 55

Adam 33, 35n, 78, 79, 81, 87, 89, 90, 91, 108 alchemy 23n, 37n, 83, 92, 98, 109

Aiī ibn Abī Ṭālib 94

‘amā’ see Cloud ‘Anqā’ 7, 30, 35, 41, 44, 46-7, 67, 71n, 78, 91-7, 104, 106-8

‘Anqā’ mughriḥ 41n, 93, 93n al–Anwār 17, 17n, 32n, 79n

al-‘aqlal–awwal see Intellect Aristotle 94n

‘Aṭṭār, Farīduddīn 16, 92, 93

a‘yān thabita (fixed entities) 41n, 103

Avicenna 16 ‘aynī 60





Bāqil 24, 24n

barzakh (isthmus, barrier) 29?, 50n, 59, 64-8, 73, 75-8, 82, 102

Blake, William 3 Body, Universal (jism kullī) 18, 51n, 88, 99-102, 105

Breath (of the All–Merciful) 41n, 90, 106-8 Burāq 12, 29, 29n, 32, 79





Cain 98

Cloud (al-‘ama’) 30, 30n, 33n, 37, 90, 107

Corbin, Henry 76, 101

Crow (ghurāb) 7, 8, 30, 35, 47-51, 64, 80, 92-3, 98-102, 104-5





Dīwan 18, 96

Dove see Ringdove al–Durra al–fākhira l1n

Dust (hahā) 33, 51?, 91, 94-5, 100-1, 104-5





Eagle (‘uqāb) 30, 35, 38, 39, 40, 42-6, 47, 49, 84, 88-91, 93, 98, 104

Eliade, Mircea 82

Eve 87





fanā’ (annihilation) 54, 59, 68, 77, 79

al–Fanā’fī al–mushāhada 79n

Fātiḥa 26?, 87

First Intellect see Intellect

Footstool (kursi) 33n, 44n, 62n

Fuṣūṣ al–ḥikam 1, 13, 14, 57, 58, 64, 64n, 65, 67, 67n, 68, 73, 73n, 76n, 82n, 87n, 96, 100n, 108

al–Futūḥāt al–Makkiyya 1, 11, 13, 14, 18, 20, 54, 55, 57n, 68, 69, 74, 81, 83, 95, 100, 101, 103, 104, 105





Gabriel 69, 81





ḥaqīqat al–haqā’iq see Reality of Realities al–Ḥallāj 23n, 55, 56, 109

habā’ see Dust hayūlā see Prime Matter

Ḥilyat al–ahdal 74

ḥūd 64n, 72

Hyle see Prime Matter





Ibn Mardanīsh 9

Ibn Sawdakīn 72, 112

Idrīs 30?, 33, 34n, 79

Ikhwān al–Safā’ 95, 99?

Inshā’ al–dawā’ir 8, 16n

Intellect (First) (al-’aql al–awwal) 7, 18, 45n, 49n, 85-6, 88, 90-1, 100, 104-6, 108

Isfār 17, 79n

ishhād 59-60

Isrā’ (Night Journey of the Prophet Muḥammad) 18, 18n

K. al–Isrā’ 17

Ittiḥād (unification) 53-8, 77n





Jābir ibn Ḥayyān 94

al–Jâmī 65

Jānn ibn Jānn 26, 26?, 71

Jesus 9n, 10, 33, 34?, 64, 79, 85, 93

al–Jilī 32?

Job 6, 78

Joseph 33, 34?, 79

Junayd 16

Jung, Carl 98





Kaykā’ūs 14

kawn (creation; cosmos) 59, 59n

Khālid ibn Sinān 63-76, 93 ; see also Abū al–Fawāris ṣakhr ibn Sinā

Khiḍr 10?, 72 Kursī see Footstool





Labīd 70

al–lawḥ al–maḥfūẓ see Tablet

likeness (mithl, mithliyya) 34, 35, 35n, 37n, 82

Lote Tree of the Limit (sidrat al–muntahā) 12, 16, 38, 80, 81

Luqmān 72

al–Mahdawī, ‘Abd al-’Azīz 12

mādda see matter

Mashāhid al–asrār 16n, 72

matter (mādda) 79, 87, 94-5, 101

Mawāqi‘ al–nujūm 16n

Mercurius 89, 98

mi‘rāj 12, 16, 17, 34n, 68, 69

mithl see likeness

Moses 9n, 10, 26n, 27n, 33, 34n, 35, 35n, 36n, 50, 50n, 54n, 71n, 72, 79,81

Mount Qāf 81n, 92

Mount Sinai 28, 28n, 78, 81n

Muḥādḥḍarāt al–abrār 66

Muḥammad 9n, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 18?, 23?, 29?, 32?, 33?, 34?, 37?, 48?, 50?, 54?, 57, 64, 66, 67, 68, 69, 75, 76n, 78-81, 85n, 87n, 89, 90, 94n, 99, 108





al–nafs al–kullī see Soul

Nature 51n, 54?, 62, 72, 75?, 83, 99, 104-6

al–Niffarī, ‘Abd al–Jabbār 78

Night Journey (see Isrā’)

Niẓām 13

Noah 31?





Pen (qalam) 7, 32, 34n, 38n, 77n, 82, 84, 87, 88, 90, 90n, 103, 104

Perfect Human Being (insān kāmil) 8, 18, 26n, 28n, 31n, 34n, 35n, 36n, 59, 60n, 64, 75n, 76, 80, 82, 83, 96, 101, 107-8

Phoenix see ’Anqā’

Plato 94n, 107

Prime Matter (hayūlā) 18,33,36, 36n, 78, 88, 94-6, 98, 107; see also Matter





al–Qāri’ al–Baghdâdī 9

al–Qāshānī 67

Quss ibn Sā’ida 24, 24n

Quṭb (spiritual Pole) 82

raqiqa/raqā‘iq (subtle thread/s) 40, 42, 85, 85n, 86n, 88

Raven see Crow Reality of Realities (ḥaqīqat al–ḥaqā’iq) 8, 95n, 107

Ringdove (al–muṭawwaqa al–warqā) 30, 35, 38-42,44, 45n, 47, 83-8, 93, 104

Rūḥ al–quds 11n

Rumī, Jalâluddīn 6,98

Rūzbihān Baqlī 92





Sabā 33, 37n

ṣadr al–Dīn Qūnawī 6, 64, 73, 74n

Sahl al–Tustarī 94

Sakhr ibn Sinān see Abū al–Fawāris

ṣâlih 64n, 76n ṣamadi’ ṣamadiyya 72-4

al–Sarrâj 16, 17

Second Matter 99; see also

Matter Shajarat al–kawn 81

Shu’ayb 64n, 82n Simurgh 92

Soul, Universal (al–nafs al–kullī) 7, 18, 85-6, 88, 100, 104-6

Stetkevych, Jaroslav 19n, 71

Suhrawardī 16, 93





Tablet (lawḥ) 7, 34n, 36, 77n, 82, 84, 86-7, 90, 103-4

al–Tadhīrat al–ilāhiyya 16n

Tarjumān al–ashwāq 13, 18, 20, 84-5, 99

Thamūd 72

Throne (al-‘arsh) 28n, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 43n, 44, 49n, 51n, 106

Tree 7, 8, 30, 31n, 34, 35-8, 80-3, 97, 107-8

Ṭūbā 81, 83





Universal Body see Body

Universal Soul see Soul

‘Uqlat al–mustawfiz 16n, 51n, 100





waḥdat al–wujūd (Unity of Being) 3, 60





Zaqqūm 81





al-Ittiḥād al-kawnī

fi hadrat al-ishhād al-'aynī

bi-mahdūr al-shajara al-insāniyya

wa-l-tuyūr al-arba'a al-ruhāniyya





Muhyī al-dīn Muḥammad

b. 'Alī b. al-'Arabī



Arabic text by Denis Gril





