Hang it all, there can be but one Sordello!1 But say I want to, say I take your whole bag of tricks, Let in your quirks and tweeks, and say the thing’s an art-form, Your Sordello, and that the modern world Needs such a rag-bag to stuff all its thought in; Say that I dump my catch, shiny and silvery As fresh sardines flapping and slipping on the marginal cobbles?
(I stand before the booth, the speech; but the truth Is inside this discourse—this booth is full of the marrow of wisdom.)
Give up th’ intaglio method.2 Tower by tower Red-brown the rounded bases, and the plan Follows the builder’s whim.
Beaucaire’s3 slim gray Leaps from the stubby base of Altaforte—4 Mohammed’s windows, for the Alcazar5 Has such a garden, split by a tame small stream.
The moat is ten yards wide, the inner courtyard Half a-swim with mire.
Trunk hose?
There are not.
The rough men swarm out In robes that are half Roman, half like the Knave of Hearts; And I discern your story: Peire Cardinal Was half forerunner of Dante.6 Arnaut’s7 that trick Of the unfinished address, And half your dates are out, you mix your eras; For that great font8 Sordello sat beside— ’Tis an immortal passage, but the font?— Is some two centuries outside the picture.
Does it matter?
Not in the least.
Ghosts move about me Patched with histories.
You had your business: To set out so much thought, so much emotion; To paint, more real than any dead Sordello, The half or third of your intensest life And call that third Sordello; And you’ll say, “No, not your life, He never showed himself.” Is’t worth the evasion, what were the use Of setting figures up and breathing life upon them, Were ’t not our life, your life, my life, extended?
I walk Verona.
(I am here in England.)
I see Can Grande.9 (Can see whom you will.)
You had one whole man?
And I have many fragments, less worth?
Less worth?
Ah, had you quite my age, quite such a beastly and cantankerous age?
You had some basis, had some set belief.
Am I let preach?
Has it a place in music?
I walk the airy street, See the small cobbles flare with the poppy spoil.
’Tis your “great day,” the Corpus Domini, And all my chosen and peninsular village Has made one glorious blaze of all its lanes— Oh, before I was up—with poppy flowers.
Mid-June: some old god eats the smoke, ’tis not the saints; And up and out to the half-ruined chapel— Not the old place at the height of the rocks, But that splay, barn-like church the Renaissance Had never quite got into trim again.
As well begin here.
Began our Catullus: “Home to sweet rest, and to the waves’ deep laughter,” The laugh they wake amid the border rushes.
This is our home, the trees are full of laughter, And the storms laugh loud, breaking the riven waves On “north-most rocks”; and here the sunlight Glints on the shaken waters, and the rain Comes forth with delicate tread, walking from Isola Garda— Lo soleils plovil,10 As Arnaut had it in th’ inextricable song.
The very sun rains and a spatter of fire Darts from the “Lydian” ripples; “locus undae,” as Catullus, “Lydiae,”11 And the place is full of spirits.
Not lemures,12 not dark and shadowy ghosts, But the ancient living, wood-white, Smooth as the inner bark, and firm of aspect, And all agleam with colors—no, not agleam, But colored like the lake and like the olive leaves, Glaukopos,13 clothed like the poppies, wearing golden greaves, Light on the air.
Are they Etruscan gods?
The air is solid sunlight, apricus,14 Sun-fed we dwell there (we in England now); It’s your way of talk, we can be where we will be, Sirmio serves my will better than your Asolo15 Which I have never seen.
Your “palace step”?
My stone seat was the Dogana’s curb,16 And there were not “those girls,” there was one flare, one face.
’Twas all I ever saw, but it was real.... And I can no more say what shape it was ...
But she was young, too young.
True, it was Venice, And at Florian’s17 and under the north arcade I have seen other faces, and had my rolls for breakfast, for that matter; So, for what it’s worth, I have the background.
And you had a background, Watched “the soul,” Sordello’s soul, And saw it lap up life, and swell and burst— “Into the empyrean?” So you worked out new form, the meditative, Semi-dramatic, semi-epic story, And we will say: What’s left for me to do?
Whom shall I conjure up; who’s my Sordello, My pre-Daun Chaucer,18 pre-Boccacio, As you have done pre-Dante?
Whom shall I hang my shimmering garment on; Who wear my feathery mantle, hagoromo;19 Whom set to dazzle the serious future ages?
Not Arnaut, not De Born, not Uc St. Circ20 who has writ out the stories.
Or shall I do your trick, the showman’s booth, Bob Browning, Turned at my will into the Agora, Or into the old theatre at Aries, And set the lot, my visions, to confounding The wits that have survived your damn’d Sordello?
(Or sulk and leave the word to novelists?)
What a hodge-podge you have made there!— Zanze and swanzig, of all opprobrious rhymes!
And you turn off whenever it suits your fancy, Now at Verona, now with the early Christians, Or now a-gabbling of the “Tyrrhene whelk.” “The lyre should animate but not mislead the pen”— That’s Wordsworth, Mr. Browning.
(What a phrase!— That lyre, that pen, that bleating sheep, Will Wordsworth!)
That should have taught you avoid speech figurative And set out your matter As I do, in straight simple phrases: Gods float in the azure air, Bright gods, and Tuscan, back before dew was shed, It is a world like Puvis’?21 Never so pale, my friend, ’Tis the first light—not half light—Panisks22 And oak-girls and the Maenads23 Have all the wood.
Our olive Sirmio Lies in its burnished mirror, and the Mounts Balde and Riva Are alive with song, and all the leaves are full of voices.
“Non è fuggito.” “It is not gone.” Metastasio Is right—we have that world about us, And the clouds bow above the lake, and there are folk upon them Going their windy ways, moving by Riva, By the western shore, far as Lonato, And the water is full of silvery almond-white swimmers, The silvery water glazes the up-turned nipple.
How shall we start hence, how begin the progress?
Pace naif Ficinus,24 say when Hotep-Hotep Was a king in Egypt— When Atlas sat down with his astrolabe, He, brother to Prometheus, physicist— Say it was Moses’ birth-year?
Exult with Shang25 in squatness?
The sea-monster Bulges the squarish bronzes.
(Confucius later taught the world good manners, Started with himself, built out perfection.)
With Egypt!
Daub out in blue of scarabs, and with that greeny turquoise?
Or with China, O Virgilio mio, and gray gradual steps Lead up beneath flat sprays of heavy cedars, Temple of teak wood, and the gilt-brown arches Triple in tier, banners woven by wall, Fine screens depicted, sea waves curled high, Small boats with gods upon them, Bright flame above the river!
Kwannon26 Footing a boat that’s but one lotus petal, With some proud four-spread genius Leading along, one hand upraised for gladness, Saying, “Tis she, his friend, the mighty goddess!
Paean!
Sing hymns ye reeds, and all ye roots and herons and swans be glad, Ye gardens of the nymphs put forth your flowers.” What have I of this life, Or even of Guido?27 Sweet lie!—Was I there truly?
Did I know Or San Michele?28 Let’s believe it.
Believe the tomb he leapt29 was Julia Laeta’s?
Friend, I do not even—when he led that street charge— I do not even know which sword he’d with him.
Sweet lie, “I lived!” Sweet lie, “I lived beside him.” And now it’s all but truth and memory, Dimmed only by the attritions of long time.
“But we forget not.” No, take it all for lies.
I have but smelt this life, a whiff of it— The box of scented wood Recalls cathedrals.
And shall I claim; Confuse my own phantastikon,30 Or say the filmy shell that circumscribes me Contains the actual sun; confuse the thing I see With actual gods behind me?
Are they gods behind me?
How many worlds we have!
If Botticelli Brings her ashore on that great cockle-shell- His Venus (Simonetta?
), And Spring and Aufidus31 fill all the air With their clear-outlined blossoms?
World enough.
Behold, I say, she comes “Apparelled like the spring, Graces her subjects,” (That’s from Pericles).
Oh, we have worlds enough, and brave décors, And from these like we guess a soul for man And build him full of aery populations.
Mantegna32 a sterner line, and the new world about us: Barred lights, great flares, new form, Picasso or Lewis.
If for a year man write to paint, and not to music— O Casella!33   II  Leave Casella.1 Send out your thought upon the Mantuan palace—2 Drear waste, great halls, Silk tatters still in the frame, Gonzaga’s splendor Alight with phantoms!
What have we of them, Or much or little?
Where do we come upon the ancient people?
“All that I know is that a certain star”— All that I know of one, Joios, Tolosan,3 Is that in middle May, going along A scarce discerned path, turning aside, In level poplar lands, he found a flower, and wept.
“Y a la primera flor, ” he wrote, “Qu’ieu trobei, tornei em plor.”4 There’s the one stave, and all the rest forgotten.
I’ve lost the copy I had of it in Paris, Out of the blue and gilded manuscript Decked out with Couci’s rabbits, And the pictures, twined with the capitals, Purporting to be Arnaut’s and the authors.
Joios we have.
By such a margent stream, He strayed in the field, wept for a flare of color, When Coeur de Lion was before Chalus.5 Or there’s En Arnaut’s score of songs, two tunes; The rose-leaf casts her dew on the ringing glass, Dolmetsch6 will build our age in witching music.
Viols da Gamba, tabors, tympanons:   “Yin-yo laps in the reeds, my guest departs, The maple leaves blot up their shadows, The sky is full of autumn, We drink our parting in saki.
Out of the night comes troubling lute music, And we cry out, asking the singer’s name, And get this answer: ‘Many a one Brought me rich presents; my hair was full of jade, And my slashed skirts, drenched in expensive dyes, Were dipped in crimson, sprinkled with rare wines.
I was well taught my arts at Ga-ma-rio, And then one year I faded out and married.’ The lute-bowl hid her face.
We heard her weeping.”7   Society, her sparrows, Venus’ sparrows, and Catullus Hung on the phrase (played with it as Mallarmé Played for a fan, “Rêveuse pour que je plonge, ”);8 Wrote out his crib from Sappho: “God’s peer that man is in my sight— Yea, and the very gods are under him, Who sits opposite thee, facing thee, near thee, Gazing his fill and hearing thee, And thou smilest.
Woe to me, with Quenched senses, for when I look upon thee, Lesbia, There is nothing above me And my tongue is heavy, and along my veins Runs the slow fire, and resonant Thunders surge in behind my ears, And the night is thrust down upon me.”   That was the way of love, flamma dimanat.9 And in a year, “I love her as a father”; And scarce a year, “Your words are written in water”; And in ten moons, “Caelius, Lesbia illa— That Lesbia, Caelius, our Lesbia, that Lesbia Whom Catullus once loved more Than his own soul and all his friends, Is now the drab of every lousy Roman.” So much for him who puts his trust in woman.
So the murk opens.
Dordoigne!
When I was there, There came a centaur, spying the land, And there were nymphs behind him.
Or going on the road by Salisbury Procession on procession— For that road was full of peoples, Ancient in various days, long years between them.
Ply over ply of life still wraps the earth here.
Catch at Dordoigne.
Viscount St. Antoni In the warm damp of spring, Feeling the night air full of subtle hands, Plucks at a viol, singing: “As the rose— Si com, si com”—they all begin “si com.” “For as the rose in trellis Winds in and through and over, So is your beauty in my heart, that is bound through and over.
So lay Queen Venus in her house of glass, The pool of worth thou art, Flood-land of pleasure.” But the Viscount Pena Went making war into an hostile country Where he was wounded: “The news held him dead.” St. Antoni in favor, and the lady Ready to hold his hands— This last report upset the whole convention.
She rushes off to church, sets up a gross of candles, Pays masses for the soul of Viscount Pena.
Thus St. Circ has the story: “That sire Raimon Jordans, of land near Caortz, Lord of St. Antoni, loved this Viscountess of Pena10 ‘Gentle’ and ‘highly prized.’ And he was good at arms and bos trobaire,11 And they were taken with love beyond all measure,” And then her husband was reported dead, “And at this news she had great grief and sorrow,” And gave the church such wax for his recovery, That he recovered, and “At this news she had great grief and teen,” And fell to moping, dismissed St. Antoni; “Thus was there more than one in deep distress.”   So ends that novel.
And the blue Dordoigne Stretches between white cliffs, Pale as the background of a Leonardo.
“As rose in trellis, that is bound over and over,” A wasted song?
No Elis, Lady of Montfort, Wife of William à Gordon, heard of the song, Sent him her mild advances.
Gordon?
Or Gourdon12 Juts into the sky Like a thin spire, Blue night’s pulled down around it Like tent flaps, or sails close hauled.
When I was there, La noche de San Juan, a score of players Were walking about the streets in masquerade, With pikes and paper helmets, and the booths, Were scattered align, the rag ends of the fair.
False arms!
True arms?
You think a tale of lances ... A flood of people storming about Spain!
My cid rode up to Burgos,13 Up to the studded gate between two towers, Beat with his lance butt.
A girl child of nine, Comes to a little shrine-like platform in the wall, Lisps out the words, a-whisper, the King’s writ: “Let no man speak to Diaz or give him help or food On pain of death, his eyes torn out, His heart upon a pike, his goods sequestered.” He from Bivar, cleaned out, From empty perches of dispersed hawks, From empty presses, Came riding with his company up the great hill— “Afe Minaya!”—14 to Burgos in the spring, And thence to fighting, to down-throw of Moors, And to Valencia rode he, by the beard!— Muy velida.15 Of onrush of lances, Of splintered staves, riven and broken casques, Dismantled castles, of painted shields split up, Blazons hacked off, piled men and bloody rivers; Then “sombre light upon reflecting armor” And portents in the wind, when De las Nieblas Set out to sea-fight, “Y dar neuva lumbre las armas y hierros.
”16 Full many a fathomed sea-change in the eyes That sought with him the salt sea victories.
Another gate?
And Kumasaka’s ghost17 come back to tell The honor of the youth who’d slain him.
Another gate.
The kernelled walls of Toro, las almenas;18 Afield, a king come in an unjust cause.
Atween the chinks aloft flashes the armored figure, Muy linda, a woman, Helen, a star, Lights the king’s features ... “No use, my liege— She is your highness’ sister,” breaks in Ancures; “Mal fuego s’enciende!”19 Such are the gestes of war “told over and over.” And Ignez?
Was a queen’s tire-woman, Court sinecure, the court of Portugal; And the young prince loved her—Pedro, Later called the cruel.
And other courtiers were jealous.
Two of them stabbed her with the king’s connivance, And he, the prince, kept quiet a space of years— Uncommon the quiet.
And he came to reign, and had his will upon the dagger- players, And held his court, a wedding ceremonial— He and her dug-up corpse in cerements Crowned with the crown and splendor of Portugal.
A quiet evening and a decorous procession; Who winked at murder kisses the dead hand, Does leal homage, “Que depois de ser morta foy Rainha.
”20 Dig up Camoens,21 hear out his resonant bombast: “That among the flowers, As once was Proserpine, Gatheredst thy soul’s light fruit and every blindness, Thy Enna the flary mead-land of Mondego, Long art thou sung by maidens in Mondego.” What have we now of her, his “linda Ignez”?
Houtmans in jail for debt in Lisbon—how long after?— Contrives a company, the Dutch eat Portugal, Follow her ship’s tracks, Roemer Vischer’s daughters, Talking some Greek, dally with glass engraving; Vondel, the Eglantine, Dutch Renaissance22— The old tale out of fashion, daggers gone; And Gaby wears Braganza23 on her throat— Commuted, say, another public pearl Tied to a public gullet.
Ah, mon rêve, It happened; and now go think— Another crown, thrown to another dancer, brings you to modern times?
I knew a man,24 but where ’twas is no matter: Born on a farm, he hankered after painting; His father kept him at work; No luck—he married and got four sons; Three died, the fourth he sent to Paris— Ten years of Julian’s and the ateliers, Ten years of life, his pictures in the salons, Name coming in the press.
And when I knew him, Back once again, in middle Indiana, Acting as usher in the theatre, Painting the local drug-shop and soda bars, The local doctor’s fancy for the mantel-piece; Sheep—jabbing the wool upon their flea-bit backs— The local doctor’s ewe-ish pastoral; Adoring Puvis, giving his family back What they had spent for him, talking Italian cities, Local excellence at Perugia, dreaming his renaissance, Take my Sordello!
III  Another’s a half-cracked fellow—John Heydon,1 Worker of miracles, dealer in levitation, In thoughts upon pure form, in alchemy, Seer of pretty visions (“servant of God and secretary of nature”); Full of a plaintive charm, like Botticelli’s, With half-transparent forms, lacking the vigor of gods.
Thus Heydon, in a trance, at Bulverton, Had such a sight: Decked all in green, with sleeves of yellow silk Slit to the elbow, slashed with various purples.
Her eyes were green as glass, her foot was leaf-like.
She was adorned with choicest emeralds, And promised him the way of holy wisdom.
“Pretty green bank,” began the half-lost poem.
Take the old way, say I met John Heydon, Sought out the place, Lay on the bank, was “plungèd deep in swevyn;” And saw the company—Layamon, Chaucer— Pass each in his appropriate robes; Conversed with each, observed the varying fashion.
And then comes Heydon.
“I have seen John Heydon.” Let us hear John Heydon!
“Omniformis Omnis intellectus est”2—thus he begins, by spouting half of Psellus.3 (Then comes a note, my assiduous commentator: Not Psellus De Daemonibus, but Porphyry’s Chances, In the thirteenth chapter, that “every intellect is omniform.”) Magnifico Lorenzo used the dodge, Says that he met Ficino4 In some Wordsworthian, false-pastoral manner, And that they walked along, stopped at a wellhead, And heard deep platitudes about contentment From some old codger with an endless beard.
“A daemon is not a particular intellect, But is a substance differed from intellect,” Breaks in Ficino, “Placed in the latitude or locus of souls”— That’s out of Proclus, take your pick of them.
Valla,5 more earth and sounder rhetoric— Prefacing praise to his Pope Nicholas: “A man of parts, skilled in the subtlest sciences; A patron of the arts, of poetry; and of a fine discernment.” Then comes a catalogue, his jewels of conversation.
No, you’ve not read your Elegantiae— A dull book?—shook the church.
The prefaces, cut clear and hard: “Know then the Roman speech, a sacrament,” Spread for the nations, eucharist of wisdom, Bread of the liberal arts.
Ha!
Sir Blancatz,6 Sordello would have your heart to give to all the princes; Valla, the heart of Rome, Sustaining speech, set out before the people.
“Nec bonus Christianus ac bonus7 Tullianus.
” Marius, Du Bellay, wept for the buildings, Baldassar Castiglione saw Raphael “Lead back the soul into its dead, waste dwelling,” Corpore laniato,8 and Lorenzo Valla, “Broken in middle life?
bent to submission?— Took a fat living from the Papacy” (That’s in Villari,9 but Burckhardt’s statement is different)- “More than the Roman city, the Roman speech” (Holds fast its part among the ever-living).
“Not by the eagles only was Rome measured.” “Wherever the Roman speech was, there was Rome,” Wherever the speech crept, there was mastery Spoke with the law’s voice while your Greek logicians ... More Greeks than one!
Doughty’s “divine Homeros” Came before sophistry.
Justinopolitan Uncatalogued Andreas Divus,10 Gave him in Latin, 1538 in my edition, the rest uncertain, Caught up his cadence, word and syllable: “Down to the ships we went, set mast and sail, Black keel and beasts for bloody sacrifice, Weeping we went.”11 I’ve strained my ear for -ensa, -ombra, and -ensa And cracked my wit on delicate canzoni— Here’s but rough meaning: “And then went down to the ship, set keel to breakers, Forth on the godly sea; We set up mast and sail on the swarthy ship, Sheep bore we aboard her, and our bodies also Heavy with weeping.
And winds from sternward Bore us out onward with bellying canvas— Circe’s this craft, the trim-coifed goddess.
Then sat we amidships, wind jamming the tiller.
Thus with stretched sail We went over sea till day’s end: Sun to his slumber, shadows o’er all the ocean.
Came we then to the bounds of deepest water, To the Kimmerian lands and peopled cities Covered with close-webbed mist, unpiercèd ever With glitter of sun-rays, Nor with stars stretched, nor looking back from heaven, Swartest night stretched over wretched men there.
Thither we in that ship, unladed sheep there, The ocean flowing backward, came we through to the place Aforesaid by Circe.
Here did they rites, Perimedes and Eurylochus, And drawing sword from my hip I dug the ell-square pitkin,12 poured we libations unto each the dead, First mead and then sweet wine, Water mixed with white flour.
Then prayed I many a prayer to the sickly death’s-heads As set in Ithaca, sterile bulls of the best, For sacrifice, heaping the pyre with goods.
Sheep, to Tiresias only, Black, and a bell sheep; Dark blood flowed in the fosse.
Souls out of Erebus, cadaverous dead Of brides, of youths, and of many passing old, Virgins tender, souls stained with recent tears, Many men mauled with bronze lance-heads, Battle spoil, bearing yet dreary arms: These many crowded about me, With shouting, pallor upon me, cried to my men for more beasts; Slaughtered the herds—sheep slain of bronze, Poured ointment, cried to the gods, To Pluto the strong, and praised Proserpine.
Unsheathed the narrow steel, I sat to keep off the impetuous, impotent dead Till I should hear Tiresias.
But first Elpenor came, our friend Elpenor, Unburied, cast on the wide earth— Limbs that we left in the house of Circe, Unwept, unwrapped in sepulchre, since toils urged other, Pitiful spirit—and I cried in hurried speech: ‘Elpenor, how art thou come to this dark coast?
Cam’st thou afoot, outstripping seamen?’ And he in heavy speech: ‘Ill fate and abundant wine!
I slept in Circe’s ingle,13 Going down the long ladder unguarded, I fell against the buttress, Shattered the nape-nerve, the soul sought Avernus.
But thou, O King, I bid remember me, unwept, unburied!
Heap up mine arms, be tomb by the sea-board, and inscribed, A man of no fortune and with a name to come; And set my oar up, that I swung ‘mid fellows.’ Came then another ghost, whom I beat off, Antictea, And then Tiresias, Theban, Holding his golden wand, knew me and spoke first: ‘Man of ill hour, why come a second time, Leaving the sunlight, facing the sunless dead and this joyless region?
Stand from the fosse, move back, leave me my bloody bever, And I will speak you true speeches.’ And I stepped back, Sheathing the yellow sword.
Dark blood he drank then And spoke: ‘Lustrous Odysseus, shalt Return through spiteful Neptune, over dark seas, Lose all companions.’ Foretold me the ways and the signs.
Came then Anticlea, to whom I answered: ‘Fate drives me on through these deeps; I sought Tiresias.’ I told her news of Troy, and thrice her shadow Faded in my embrace.
Then had I news of many faded women— Tyro, Alemena, Chloris— Heard out their tales by that dark fosse, and sailed By sirens and thence outward and away, And unto Circe buried Elpenor’s corpse.”   Lie quiet, Divus.
In Officina Wechli, Paris, M. D. three X’s, Eight, with Aldus on the Frogs, And a certain Cretan’s Hymni Deorum: (The thin clear Tuscan stuff Gives way before the florid mellow phrase.)
Take we the Goddess, Venus: Venerandam, Aurean coronam habentem, pulchram, Cypri munimenta sortita est,14 maritime, Light on the foam, breathed on by zephyrs, And air-tending hours.
Mirthful, orichalci,15 with golden Girdles and breast bands.
Thou with dark eye-lids, Bearing the golden bough of Argicida.16  [Poetry, 1917]   THE FOURTH CANTO  Palace in smoky light, Troy but a heap of smouldering boundary-stones, ANAXIFORMINGES!
Aurunculeia!1 Hear me.
Cadmus of Golden Prows;2 The silver mirrors catch the bright stones and flare, Dawn, to our waking, drifts in the green cool light; Dew-haze blurrs, in the grass, pale ankles moving.
Beat, beat, whirr, thud, in the soft turf under the apple trees, Choros nympharum, goat-foot with the pale foot alternate; Crescent of blue-shot waters, green-gold in the shallows A black cock crows in the sea-foam;   And by the curved carved foot of the couch, claw-foot and lion head, an old man seated Speaking in the low drone: ... “Ityn!
“Et ter flebiliter.
Ityn, Ityn!3 “And she went toward the window and cast her down, “All the while, the while, swallows crying: “Ityn!
“ ”It is Cabestan’s4 heart in the dish.” “ ”It is Cabestan’s heart in the dish?
“ ”No other taste shall change this.
“  And she went toward the window, the slim white stone bar Making a double arch; Firm even fingers held to the firm pale stone; Swung for a moment, and the wind out of Rhodez5 Caught in the full of her sleeve.
... the swallows crying: Ityn!
Ityn!” Actaeon.
...6 And a valley, The valley is thick with leaves, with leaves, the trees, The sunlight glitters, glitters a-top, Like a fish-scale roof, Like the church-roof in Poictiers If it were gold.
Beneath it, beneath it Not a ray, not a slivver, not a spare disk of sunlight Flaking the black, soft water; Bathing the body of nymphs, of nymphs, and Diana, Nymphs, white-gathered about her, and the air, air, Shaking, air alight with the goddess fanning their hair in the dark, Lifting, lifting and waffing: Ivory dipping in silver, Shadow’d, o’ershadow’d Ivory dipping in silver, Not a splotch, not a lost shatter of sunlight.
Then Actaeon: Vidal, Vidal.7 It is old Vidal speaking, stumbling along in the wood Not a patch, not a lost shimmer of sunlight, the pale hair of the goddess, The dogs leap on Actaeon, “Hither, hither, Actaeon,” Spotted stag of the wood; Gold, gold, a sheaf of hair, Thick like a wheat swath, Blaze, blaze in the sun, The dogs leap on Actaeon.
Stumbling, stumbling along in the wood, Muttering, muttering Ovid: “Pergusa ... pool.. pool ... Gargaphia ‘Pool, pool of Salmacis.8 The empty armour shakes as the cygnet moves, Thus the light rains, thus pours, e lo soleils plovil,9 The liquid, and rushing crystal whirls up the bright brown sand.
Ply over ply,10 thin glitter of water; Brook film bearing white petals (“The pines of Takasago11 grow with pines of Ise“12) “Behold the Tree of the Visages.” The forked tips flaming as if with lotus, Ply over ply The shallow eddying fluid beneath the knees of the gods.
Torches melt in the glare Set flame of the corner cook-stall, Blue agate casing the sky, a sputter of resin; The saffron sandal petals the tender foot, Hymenaeus!
Io Hymen, Io Hymenaee!13 Aurunculeia14 The scarlet flower is cast on the blanch-white stone, Amaracus, Hill of Urania’s Son.
Meanwhile So-Gioku:15 “This wind, sire, is the king’s wind, this wind is wind of the palace Shaking imperial water-jets.” And Ran-Ti, opening his collar: “This wind roars in the earth’s bag, it lays the water with rushes; “No wind is the king’s wind.
Let every cow keep her calf.” “This wind is held in gauze curtains.....” No wind is the king’s ...” ‘The camel drivers sit in the turn of the stairs look down to Ecbatan16 of plotted streets, “Danae!
Danae!17 What wind is the king’s?
Smoke hangs on the stream, The peach-trees shed bright leaves in the water, Sound drifts in the evening haze, The barge scrapes at the ford.
Gilt rafters above black water; three steps in an open field Gray stone-posts leading nowhither.
The Spanish poppies swim in an air of glass.
Père Henri Jacques18 still seeks the sennin on Rokku.19 Polhonac,20 As Gyges21 on Thracian platter, set the feast; Cabestan, Terreus.
It is Cabestan’s heart in the dish.
Vidal, tracked out with dogs .. for glamour of Loba; Upon the gilded tower in Ecbatan Lay the god’s bride, lay ever Waiting the golden rain.
Et saave!
But to-day, Garonne22 is thick like paint, beyond Dorada, The worm of the Procession bores in the soup of the crowd, The blue thin voices against the crash of the crowd Et “Salve regina.”23 In trellises Wound over with small flowers, beyond Adige24 In the but half-used room, thin film of images, (by Stefano)25 Age of unbodied gods, the vitreous fragile images Thin as the locust’s wing Haunting the mind .. as of Guido ...
Thin as the locust’s wing.
The Centaur’s heel Plants in the earth-loam.
THE FIFTH CANTO  Great bulk, huge mass, thesaurus; Ecbatan,1 the clock ticks and fades out; The bride awaiting the god’s touch; Ecbatan, City of patterned streets; again the vision: Down in the viae stradae, toga’d the crowd, and arm’d, Rushing on populous business, and from parapets Looked down—at North Was Egypt, and the celestial Nile, blue-deep cutting low barren land, Old men and camels working the water-wheels; Measureless seas and stars, lamblichus,2 light, the souls ascending, Sparks like a partridge covey, Like the “ciocca,”3 brand struck in the game.
“Et omniformis”:4 Air, fire, the pale soft light.
Topaz, I manage, and three sorts of blue; but on the barb of time.
The fire?
always, and the vision always, Ear dull, perhaps, with the vision, flitting And fading at will.
Weaving with points of gold, Gold-yellow, saffron ...
The roman shoe, Aurunculeia’s, And come shuffling feet, and cries “Da nuces!5 “Nuces!” praise and Hymenaeus “brings the girl to her man.” Titter of sound about me, always, and from “Hesperus ...” Hush of the older song: “Fades light from seacrest, “And in Lydia walks with pair’d women “Peerless among the pairs, and that once in Sardis “In satieties ... “Fades the light from the sea, and many things “Are set abroad and brought to mind of thee,” And the vinestocks lie untended, new leaves come to the shoots, North wind nips on the bough, and seas in heart Toss up chill crests, And the vine stocks lie untended And many things are set abroad and brought to mind Of thee, Atthis,6 unfruitful.
The talks ran long in the night.
And from Mauleon,7 fresh with a new earned grade, In maze of approaching rain-steps, Poicebot 8 The air was full of women.
And Savairic Mauleon Gave him his land and knight’s fee, and he wed the woman.
Came lust of travel on him, of romerya;9 And out of England a knight with slow-lifting eyelids Lei fassar furar a del,10 put glamour upon her ... And left her an eight months gone.
“Came lust of woman upon him,” Poicebot, now on North road from Spain (Sea-change, a grey in the water) And in small house by town’s edge Found a woman, changed and familiar face; Hard night, and parting at morning.
And Pieire won the singing, Pieire de Maensac,11 Song or land on the throw, and was dreitz hom12 And had De Tierci’s wife and with the war they made: Troy in Auvergnat While Menelaus piled up the church at port He kept Tyndarida.
Dauphin stood with de Maensac.
John Borgia13 is bathed at last.
(Clock-tick pierces the vision) Tiber, dark with the cloak, wet cat gleaming in patches.
Click of the hooves, through garbage, Clutching the greasy stone.
“And the cloak floated” Slander is up betimes.
But Varchi14 of Florence, Steeped in a different year, and pondering Brutus, Then “SIGA MAL AUTHIS DEUTERON!15 “Dog-eye!
!” (to Alessandro) “Whether for Love of Florence,” Varchi leaves it, Saying, “I saw the man, came up with him at Venice, “I, one wanting the facts, “And no mean labour.
“Or for a privy spite?” Good Varchi leaves it, But: “I saw the man.
Se pia?
“O impia?16 For Lorenzaccio17 had thought of stroke in the open “But uncertain (for the Duke went never unguarded) ... “And would have thrown him from wall “Yet feared this might not end him,” or lest Alessandro Know not by whom death came, O si credesse18 “If when the foot slipped, when death came upon him, “Lest cousin Duke Alessandro think he’d fallen alone “No friend to aid him in falling.” Caina attende.19 As beneath my feet a lake, was ice in seeming.
And all of this, runs Varchi, dreamed out beforehand In Perugia, caught in the star-maze by Del Carmine, Cast on a natal paper, set with an exegesis, told, All told to Alessandro, told thrice over, Who held his death for a doom.
In abuleia.
But Don Lorenzino “Whether for love of Florence ... but “O si morisse, credesse caduto da se.”   SIGA, SIGA!20 The wet cloak floats on the surface, Schiavoni, caught on the wood-barge, Gives out the afterbirth, Giovanni Borgia,21 Trails out no more at nights, where Barabello22 Prods the Pope’s elephant, and gets no crown, where Mozarello Takes the Calabrian roadway, and for ending Is smothered beneath a mule, a poet’s ending,23 Down a stale well-hole, oh a poet’s ending.
“Sanazarro24 “Alone out of all the court was faithful to him” For the gossip of Naples’ trouble drifts to North, Fracastor (lightning was midwife) Cotta, and Ser D’Alviano, Al poco giorno ed al gran cerchio d’ombra,25 Talk the talks out with Navighero,26 Burner of yearly Martials, (The slavelet is mourned in vain) And the next comer says “were nine wounds, “Four men, white horse with a double rider,” The hooves clink and slick on the cobbles ... Schiavoni ... the cloak floats on the water, “Sink the thing,” splash wakes Schiavoni; Tiber catching the nap, the moonlit velvet, A wet cat gleaming in patches.
“Se pia,” Varchi, “O empia, ma risoluto “E terribile deliberazione”27 Both sayings run in the wind, Ma si morisse!28   THE SIXTH CANTO  “The tale of thy deeds, Odysseus!” and Tolosan Ground rents, sold by Guillaume,1 ninth duke of Aquitaine; Till Louis is wed with Eleanor; the wheel ... (“Conrad, the wheel turns and in the end turns ill”) And Acre and boy’s love ... for her uncle was Commandant at Acre, she was pleased with him; And Louis, French King,2 was jealous of days unshared This pair had had together in years gone; And he drives on for Zion, as “God wills” To find, in six weeks time, the Queen’s scarf is Twisted atop the casque of Saladin.
“For Sandbrueil’s ransom.” But the pouch-mouths add, “She went out hunting, there, the tuft-top palms “Give spot of shade, she rode back rather late, “Late, latish, yet perhaps it was not too late.” Then France again, and to be rid of her And brush his antlers; Aquitaine, Poictiers!
Buckle off the lot!
And Adelaide Castilla wears the crown.
Eleanor down water-butt, dethroned, debased, unqueen’d.
Unqueen’d for five rare months, And frazzle-top, the sand-red face, the pitching gait, Harry Plantagent, the sputter in place of speech, But King about to be, King Louis, takes a queen.
“E quand lo reis Louis lo entendit mout er faschée3 And yet Gisors,4 in six years thence, Was Marguerite’s.
And Harry joven In pledge for all his life and life of all his heirs Shall have Gisors and Vexis5 and Neauphal, Neufchastel; But if no issue, Gisors shall revert And Vexis and Neufchastel and Neauphal to the French crown.
A song: Si tuit li dol el plor el marrimen Del mon6 were set together they would seem but light Against the death of the young English King, Harry the Young is dead and all men mourn, Mourn all good courtiers, fighters, cantadors.
And still Old Harry keeps grip on Gisors And Neufchastel and Neauphal and Vexis; And two years war, and never two years go by but come new forays, and “The wheel “Turns, Conrad, turns, and in the end toward ill.” And Richard and Alix7 span the gap, Gisors, And Eleanor and Richard face the King, For the fourth family time Plantagenet Faces his dam and whelps, ... and holds Gisors, Now Alix’ dowry, against Philippe-Auguste (Louis’ by Adelaide, wood-lost, then crowned at Etampe) And never two years sans war.
And Zion still Bleating away to Eastward, the lost lamb, Damned city (was only Frederic knew The true worth, and patched with Malek Kamel8 The sane and sensible peace to bait the world And set all camps disgruntled with all leaders.
“Damn’d atheists!” alike Mahomet growls, And Christ grutches more sullen for Sicilian sense Than does Mahound on Malek.)
The bright coat Is more to the era, and in Messina’s beach-way Des Barres and Richard split the reed-lances And the coat is torn.
(Moving in heavy air: Henry and Saladin.9 The serpent coils in the crowd.)
The letters run: Tancred10 to Richard:  That the French King is More against thee, than is his will to me Good and in faith; and moves against your safety.
Richard to Tancred:  That our pact stands firm, And, for these slanders, that I think you lie.
Proofs, and in writing:  And if Bourgogne say they were not Deliver’d by hand and his, Let him move sword against me and my word.
Richard to Philip: silence, with a tone.
Richard to Flanders: the subjoined and precedent.
Philip a silence; and then, “Lies and turned lies “For that he will fail Alix “Affianced, and Sister to Ourself.” Richard: “My Father’s bed-piece!
A Plantagenet “Mewls on the covers, with a nose like his already.” Then:  In the Name Of Father and of Son Triune and Indivisible Philip of France by Goddes Grace To all men presents that our noble brother Richard of England engaged by our mutual oath   (a sacred covenant applicable to both) Need not wed Alix11 but whomso he choose We cede him Gisors, Neauphal and Vexis And to the heirs male of his house Cahors and Querci Richard’s The abbeys ours Of Figeac and Souillac And St Gilles left still in peace   Alix returns to France.
Made in Messina in The year 1190 of the Incarnation of the Word.
Reed lances broken, a cloak torn by Des Barres Do turn King Richard from the holy wars.
And “God aid Conrad “For man’s aid comes slow,” Aye tarries upon the road, En Bertrans cantat.
And before all this By Correze, Malemort12 A young man walks, at church with galleried porch By river-marsh, a sad man, pacing Come from Ventadorn; and Eleanor turning on thirty years, Domna jauzionda,13 and then Bernart saying: “My Lady of Ventadorn “Is shut by Eblis in,14 and will not hawk nor hunt “Nor get her free in the air, nor watch fish rise to bait “Nor the glare-wing’d flies alight in the creek’s edge “Save in my absence, Madame.
’Que la lauzeta mover,’ “Send word, I ask you, to Eblis, you have seen that maker “And finder of songs, so far afield as this “That he may free her, who sheds such light in the air.”   THE SEVENTH CANTO  Eleanor (she spoiled in a British climate) ‘Eλανδρoζ and ‘Eλέπτoλιζ,1 and poor old Homer blind, blind as a bat, Ear, ear for the sea-surge; rattle of old men’s voices.
And then the phantom Rome, marble narrow for seats “Si pulvis nullus erit”2 The chatter above the circus, “Nullum tamen excute.” Then file and candles, e li mestiers ecoutes;3 Scene for the battle only, but still scene, Pennons and standards y cavals armatz,4 Not mere succession of strokes, sightless narration, And Dante’s “ciocco,”5 brand struck in the game.
Un peu moisi, plancher plus bas que le jardin.
“Contre le lambris, fauteuil de paille, “Un vieux piano, et sous le barometre ...6   The old men’s voices, beneath the columns of false marble, And the walls tinted discreet, the modish, darkish green-blue, Discreeter gilding, and the pannelled wood Not present, but suggested, for the leasehold is Touched with an imprecision ... about three squares; The house a shade too solid, and the art A shade off action, paintings a shade too thick.
And the great domed head, con gli occhi onesti e tardi7 Moves before me, phantom with weighted motion, Grave incessu, drinking the tone of things, And the old voice lifts itself weaving an endless sentence.
We also made ghostly visits, and the stair That knew us, found us again on the turn of it, Knocking at empty rooms, seeking for buried beauty; And the sun-tanned, gracious and well-formed fingers Lift no latch of bent bronze, no Empire handle Twists for the knocker’s fall; no voice to answer.
A strange concierge, in place of the gouty-footed.
Skeptic against all this one seeks the living, Stubborn against the fact.
The wilted flowers Brushed out a seven year since, of no effect.
Damn the partition!
Paper, dark brown and stretched, Flimsy and damned partition.
lone, dead the long year,8 My lintel, and Liu Ch’e’s lintel.9 Time blacked out with the rubber.
The Elysée10 carries a name on And the bus behind me gives me a date for peg; Low ceiling and the Erard11 and the silver, These are in “time.” Four chairs, the bow-front dresser, The pannier of the desk, cloth top sunk in.
“Beer-bottle on the statue’s pediment!
“That, Fritz, is the era, to-day against the past, “Contemporary.” And the passion endures.
Against their action, aromas.
Rooms, against chronicles.
Smaragdos, chrysolitos; De Gama12 wore striped pants in Africa And “Mountains of the sea gave birth to troops”; Le vieux commode en acajou:13 beer-bottles of various strata, But is she as dead as Tyro?
In seven years?
‘Eλἐναυς,λανδρoς, ἐλἑπτoλiς14 The sea runs in the beach-groove, shaking the floated pebbles, Eleanor!
The scarlet curtain throws a less scarlet shadow; Lamplight at Buovilla, e quel remir,15 And all that day Nicea16 moved before me And the cold gray air troubled her not For all her naked beauty, bit not the tropic skin, And the long slender feet lit on the curb’s marge And her moving height went before me, We alone having being.
And all that day, another day: Thin husks I had known as men, Dry casques of departed locusts speaking a shell of speech ...
Propped between chairs and table ...
Words like the locust-shells, moved by no inner being; A dryness calling for death;   Another day, between walls of a sham Mycenian, “Toe”17 sphinxes, sham-Memphis columns, And beneath the jazz a cortex, a stiffness or stillness, The older shell, varnished to lemon colour, Brown-yellow wood, and the no colour plaster, Dry professorial talk ... now stilling the ill beat music, House expulsed by this house, but not extinguished.
Square even shoulders and the satin skin, Gone cheeks of the dancing woman, Still the old dead dry talk, gassed out— It is ten years gone, makes stiff about her a glass, A petrifaction of air.
The old room of the tawdry class asserts itself; The young men, never!
Only the husk of talk.
O voi che siete in piccioletta barca,18 Dido choked up with sobs for her Sicheus19 Lies heavy in my arms, dead weight Drowning, with tears, new Eros,   And the life goes on, mooning upon bare hills; Flame leaps from the hand, the rain is listless, Yet drinks the thirst from our lips, solid as echo, Passion to breed a form in shimmer of rain-blur; But Eros drowned, drowned, heavy—half dead with tears For dead Sicheus.
Life to make mock of motion: For the husks, before me, move, The words rattle: shells given out by shells.
The live man, out of lands and prisons, shakes the dry pods.
Probes for old wills and friendships, and the big locust-casques Bend to the tawdry table,   Lift up their spoons to mouths, put forks in cutlets, And make sound like the sound of voices.
Lorenzaccio20 Being more live than they, more full of flames and voices.
Ma si morisse!21 Credesse caduto da se, ma si morisse.
And the tall indifference moves, a more living shell, Drift in the air of fate, dry phantom, but intact.
O Alessandro, chief and thrice warned, watcher, Eternal watcher of things, Of things, of men, of passions.
Eyes floating in dry, dark air, E biondo,22 with glass-grey iris, with an even side-fall of hair The stiff, still features.
EIGHTH CANTO  Dido choked up with tears for dead Sichaeus;1 And the weeping Muse, weeping, widowed, and willing, The weeping Muse Mourns Homer, Mourns the days of long song, Mourns for the breath of the singers, Winds stretching out, seas pulling to eastward, Heaving breath of the oarsmen, triremes2 under Cyprus, The long course of the seas, The words woven in wind-wrack, salt spray over voices.
Tyro3 to shoreward lies lithe with Neptunus And the glass-clear wave arches over them; Seal sports in the spray-whited circles of cliff-wash, Sleek head, daughter of Lir,4 eyes of Picasso Under black fur-hood, lithe daughter of Ocean; And the wave runs in the beach-groove: Eleanor, ἐλἑναυς and ἐλἑπτoλiς,5 and poor old Homer blind, blind, as a bat, Ear, ear for the sea-surge, murmur of old men’s voices: “Let her go back to the ships, Back among Grecian faces, lest evil come on our own, Evil and further evil, and a curse cursed on our children.
Moves, yes she moves like a goddess And has the face of a god and the voice of Schoeney’s daughters,6 And doom goes with her in walking, Let her go back to the ships, back among Grecian voices.” And by the beach-run, Tyro, Twisted arms of the sea-god, Lithe sinews of water, gripping her, cross-hold, And the blue-gray glass of the wave tents them, Glare azure of water, cord-welter, close cover.
Quiet sun-tawny sand-stretch, The gulls broad out their wings, nipping between the splay feathers; Snipe come for their bath, bend out their wing-joints, Spread wet wings to the sun-film,   And by Scios, to left of the Naxos7 passage, Naviform rock overgrown algae cling to its edge, There is a wine-red glow in the shallows, a tin flash in the sun-dazzle.
The ship landed in Scios, men wanting spring-water, And by the rock-pool a young boy8 loggy with vine-must, “To Naxos?
yes, we’ll take yuh to Naxos, Cum’ along lad.” “Not that way!” “Aye, that way is Naxos.” And I said: “It’s a straight ship.” And an ex-convict out of Italy knocked me into the fore-stays, (He was wanted for manslaughter in Tuscany) And the whole twenty against me, Mad for a little slave money.
And they took her out of Scios And off her course ... And the boy came to again with the racket, And looked out over the bows, and to eastward, and to the Naxos passage.
God-sleight then, god-sleight: Ship stock fast in sea-swirl, Ivy upon the oars, King Pentheus,9 grapes with no seed but sea-foam, Ivy in scupper-hole Aye, I, Acoetes,10 stood there, and the god stood by me, Water cutting under the keel,   Sea-break from stern forrards, wake running off from the bow, And where was gunwale, there now was vine-trunk, And tenthril where cordage had been, grape-leaves on the rowlocks Heavy vine on the oarshafts, And, out of nothing, a breathing, hot breath on my ankles, Beasts like shadows in glass, a furred tail upon nothingness.
Lynx-purr, and heathery smell of beasts, where tar smell had been, Sniff and pad-foot of beasts, eye-glitter out of black air, The sky overshot, dry, with no tempest, Sniff and pad-foot of beasts, fur brushing my knee-skin, Rustle of airy sheaths, dry forms in the aether,  And the ship like a keel in ship-yard, slung like an ox in smith’s sling, Ribs stuck fast in the ways, grape-cluster over pin-rack, Void air taking pelt, Lifeless air become sinewed, feline leisure of panthers, Leopards sniffing the grape shoots by scupper-hole, Crouched panthers by fore-hatch, And the sea blue-deep about us, green-ruddy in shadows,   And Lyaeus:11 “From now, Acoetes, my altars, Fearing no bondage, fearing no cat of the wood, Safe with my lynxes, feeding grapes to my leopards, Olibanum12 is my incense, the vines grow in my homage.”   The back-swell now smooth in the rudder-chains, Black snout of a porpoise where Lycabs13 had been, Fish-scales on the oarsmen.
And I worship.
I have seen what I have seen.
When they brought the boy I said: “He has a god in him, though I do not know which god,” And they kicked me into the fore-stays, And I was frightened, but I am not afraid any longer, I have seen what I have seen: Medon’s face like the face of a dory,14 Arms shrunk into fins.
And you, Pentheus, Had as well listen to Tiresias,15 and to Cadmus,16 or your luck will go out of you.
Fish-scales over groin muscles, lynx-purr amid sea ...   And of a later year, pale in the wine-red algae, If you will lean over the rock, the coral face under wave-tinge, Rose-paleness under water-shift, Ileuthyeria fair Dafne17 of sea-bords, The swimmer’s arms turned to branches, Who will say in what year, fleeing what band of tritons, The smooth brows, seen, and half seen, now ivory stillness.
And So-shu18 churned in the sea, So-shu also, using the long moon for a churn-stick ... Lithe turning of water, sinews of Poseidon, Black-azure and hyaline, glass wave over Tyro, Close cover, unstillness, bright welter of wave-cords, Then quiet water, quiet in the buff sands, Sea-fowl stretching wing-joints, splashing in rock-hollows and sand-hollows In the wave-runs by the half-dune; Glass-glint of wave in the tide-rips against sunlight, pallor of Hesperus,19 Grey peak of the wave, wave, colour of grape’s pulp, Olive grey in the near, far, smoke-grey of the rock-slide.
Salmon-pink wings of the fish-hawk cast grey shadows in water, The tower like a one-eyed great goose cranes up out of the olive-grove,   And we have heard the fauns chiding Proteus20 in the smell of hay under the olive-trees.
And the frogs singing against the fauns in the half-light.